during scotland t20 international against australia on thursday there was an incident that caused large amount of interest and confusion online. scotland bowler mark watt delivered the ball from well behind the stumps to australia batter josh inglis. inglis backed away from the delivery claiming he wasn ready and the ball went on to hit the top of the stumps. the umpire called and signalled dead ball and the ball was re bowled. so did the umpire get it right the first thing to look at here is the law itself. law 20.4.2.5 states umpire shall call and signal dead ball when the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and if the ball is delivered makes no attempt to play it. provided the umpire is satisfied that the striker had adequate reason for not being ready the ball shall not count as one of the over. mcc clarification on scotland australia men t20i incident. postedseptember 2024 the first half of that clause is clear if the striker decides that he she is not ready for delivery steps back and makes no attempt to play the ball the umpire shall call and signal dead ball. the umpire was entirely correct to do so in this situation and inglis was rightly not given out. the ne question is whether the ball should count. here the umpire has to decide whether the striker had adequate reason for not being ready. as these still images show as watt goes into his inglis is looking down at his feet presumably the bowler to bowl from position near the popping crease. instead watt enters his delivery stride ne to the umpire. by the time the bowler back foot lands inglis has looked up but is clearly not the delivery. he has made significant move away from the wicket before the ball is halfway down the pitch. with those facts in mind it seems reasonable that inglis had good reason to not be ready he was not anticipating delivery from ne to the umpire. while such delivery is perfectly allowed in law if the striker is not it they have the right to withdraw. however the umpire could after this mention to the batter that in future he should be such delivery second similar delivery to the same batter could easily be treated differently. in that case the striker would still not be out bowled the law is clear that the striker has the right to step away from the ball but the ball would not be bowled again and it would be recorded as dot ball. furthermore if the umpires felt that batter was deliberately refusing to be ready as an attempt to gain an advantage they could turn to law 41.10 batter wasting time which could lead torun penalty and report to the governing body responsible for the match.