during somerset lv county championship match against kent at taunton this week there was an unusual occurrence that sparked discussion about the laws of cricket. somerset batter lewis goldsworthy played delivery from kent jaskaran singh. the bat made contact with the ball before the toe of the bat splintered off hitting the stumps and breaking the wicket. the umpire however had already called no ball. mcc clarification on goldsworthy hit wicket incident posted 22 september 2023 it was no ball because singh had over stepped. law 35.2 hit wicket states that striker is not out under this law if the delivery is no ball. so goldsworthy correctly was not given out. but what if it had been fair delivery well in that case as unfortunate as it may seem goldsworthy would have been dismissed. law 35.1 states striker is out hit wicket if after the bowler has entered the delivery stride and while the ball is in play his her wicket is broken by either the striker bat or person as described in laws 29.2.1.2 to 29.2.1.4 breaking the wicket fairly in any of the following circumstances 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him her in preparing to receive or in receiving delivery that refers us back to law 29.2.1.3 which says that the wicket can be fairly broken .2.1.3 for the purpose of this law only by the striker bat not in hand or by any part of the bat which has become detached part of the bat which has become detached is therefore specifically covered by law as is any other part of the striker clothing or equipment with one . that is the striker helmet or any part of the helmet that becomes detached. this was specifically from the law in 2022 because some batters had worried that if they wore certain helmets with neck protectors those may dislodge and hit the wicket. in order to allay these fears and ensure that no player should be disincentivised from wearing the necessary protection on their head helmets or indeed parts of helmets are not able to break the wicket fairly. aside from that however it is the batter responsibility not only for his her body but for anything he she holds or wears. if they become detached and break the wicket while the batter is in the action of playing the ball then the striker is out under the laws. unless of course the bowler has over stepped. this was fortunate for goldsworthy who avoided what would perhaps have been the most unusual dismissal of the english summer and he went on to make his first century of the season. read the laws 020 7616 8500 reception mcc.org.uk view our partners privacy notice ground regulations report discrimination corporate information terms conditions contact us accreditation implementation statement gender pay gap report 2023 24 modern slavery human trafficking statement statement of investment principles environmental social governance report 2021