following number of queries regarding the final delivery during vitality final on saturday 16 july mcc has released the following clarification the match was concluded when the ball was deemed to be dead by the umpire after the batters had completed one bye from the final ball. the bowler end umpire signalled the bye to the scorers. under law 2.13.3 the signal for bye be made to the when the ball is dead. the ball was dead because in the view of the umpire it was finally settled in the hands of the wicket keeper. law 20.2 states 20.2 ball finally settled whether the ball is finally settled or not is matter for the umpire alone to decide. mcc clarification on vitality blast finals day 2022 posted 17 july 2022 analysis of the footage of the match showed that when the umpire signalled the bye the original non striker was standing still about four yards behind the striker wicket while the striker was slowing down in his attempt to reach the other end so it was reasonable to consider that the ball was dead. vitality blast vitalityblast follow everyone recovered from last night blast22 finalsday2626 view replies20 am jul 17 2022 937 reply copy link read 31 replies it is not therefore relevant that the wicket was not lawfully put down at the bowler end. once the umpire has made the decision that the ball is dead that decision cannot be revoked. it is also worth noting law 16.10 once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the scores at the conclusion of the match see laws 2.15 correctness of scores and 3.2 correctness of scores the result cannot thereafter be changed. this is not the first of premature celebrations by the fielding side creating uncertainty at the end of close matches. teams are encouraged to ensure that all play has definitively ceased before starting any victory celebrations. in relation to the field change for the no ball free hit that not for mcc to clarify. free hits are not in the laws they are an ecb playing regulation so it up to ecb to issue any guidance on this. you can read the laws of cricket in full using the link below. laws of cricket 020 7616 8500 reception mcc.org.uk view our partners privacy notice corporate information