the laws of cricket 2017 code 3rd edition 2022 marylebone cricket clubthe preface the game of cricket has been governed by series of codes of laws for over 275 years. these codes have been subject to additions and alterations recommended by the governing authorities of the time. since its formation in 1787 marylebone cricket club mcc has been recognised as the sole authority for drawing up the code and for all subsequent amendments. the club also holds the world copyright. the basic laws of cricket have stood the test of time remarkably well. while the game has evolved over generations it remains recognisably the same sport as in decades and centuries gone by. the laws today may be longer and more complex than the earliest codes in the 18th century but they retain the same central core and often some of the same language. it is thought that one of the real reasons for this sustainability is not just the appeal of cricket as sport but also that cricketers have traditionally been prepared to play in the spirit of the game recognised in the preamble since 2000 as well as in accordance with the laws. that said the game does evolve and the laws must do so with it. the changes made in the 2017 code of which this is the third edition reflected views following global consultation with players umpires and administrators at all levels of the game including the international cricket council the sport global governing body. the game had evolved quickly requiring six editions of the 2000 code to be published in only fifteen years. new code was necessary to rationalise these amendments and to list the laws in more logical format and order. the guiding objectives behind the 2017 changes evidenced from the consultation were to maintain fair balance between bat and ball to make the laws easier to understand to safeguard players welfare and to give umpires more mechanisms to address instances of poor behaviour by players. those principles have continued to guide this third edition in which changes are intended to shape the game of cricket as it should be played rather than being reliant on outdated if long standing traditions. with that in mind for the first time in 2017 the laws were written in gender neutral format reflecting and further encouraging the rising popularity of the game amongst women and girls. this edition goes step further replacing the old term with the gender neutral reflecting that cricket is game for everyone and that language shapes our behaviours. the mcc laws of cricket provide the framework around which all cricket matches are based. individual leagues and governing bodies then add their own playing regulations on top amending the laws to suit the differing needs of for matches in junior cricket t20 matches and test matches. in almost all cases the fundamentals of the game such as scoring runs and taking wickets remain unchanged in such regulations. the laws contained in this book are correct at the time of its publication but the mcc website www.lords.org and laws of cricket app provide digital version which will be updated with any minor changes if necessary. significant dates in the history of the laws are as follows 1700 cricket was recognised as early as this date. 1744 the earliest known code was drawn up by certain and gentlemen who used the artillery ground in london. 1755 the laws were revised by cricket clubs particularly the star and garter in pall mall .1774 further revision was produced by committee of noblemen and gentlemen of kent hampshire surrey sussex middlesex and london at the star and garter . 1786 further revision was undertaken by similar body of noblemen and gentlemen of kent hampshire surrey sussex middlesex and london. 1788 the first mcc code of laws was adopted on 30 may. 1835 new code of laws was approved by the mcc committee on 19 may. 1884 after consultation with cricket clubs worldwide important alterations were incorporated in new version approved at an mcc special general meeting on 21 april. 1947 new code of laws was approved at an mcc special general meeting onmay. the main changes were aimed at achieving clarification and better arrangement of the laws and their interpretations. 1979 after five editions of the 1947 code further revision was begun in 1974 with the aim being to remove certain anomalies consolidate various amendments and notes and to achieve greater clarity and simplicity. the new code of laws was approved at an mcc special general meeting on 21 november coming into effect in 1980. 1992 second edition of the 1980 code was produced incorporating all the amendments which were approved during the intervening twelve years. 2000 new code of laws including preamble defining the spirit of cricket was approved onmay. 2007 mcc established the laws sub committee replacing the laws working party. 2010 fourth edition of the 2000 code was published. mcc members agreed at special general meeting onmay that the mcc committee is entitled to change the laws of cricket without seeking the approval of the members. 2017 after six editions of the 2000 code new 2017 code came into effect onoctober. second edition was published in april 2019. many queries on the laws are sent to mcc for decision every year. mcc as the accepted custodian of the laws has always been prepared to answer the queries and to give interpretations. however mcc reserves the right not to answer queries which it considers to be frivolous or connected in any way with bet or wager. lord cricket ground . . lavender london nw8 8qn chief secretary mccoctober 2022contents the preamble the spirit of cricket lawthe players lawthe umpires lawthe scorers lawthe ball lawthe bat lawthe pitch lawthe creases lawthe wickets lawpreparation and maintenance of the playing area law 10 covering the pitch law 11 intervals law 12 start of play cessation of play law 13 innings law 14 the follow on law 15 declaration and forfeiture law 16 the result law 17 the over law 18 scoring runs law 19 boundaries law 20 dead ball law 21 no ball law 22 wide ball law 23 bye and leg bye law 24 fielder absence substitutes law 25 batter innings runners law 26 practice on the field law 27 the wicket keeper law 28 the fielder law 29 the wicket is down law 30 batter out of his her ground law 31 appeals law 32 bowled law 33 caught law 34 hit the ball twice law 35 hit wicket law 36 leg before wicket law 37 obstructing the field law 38 run out law 39 stumped law 40 timed out law 41 unfair play law 42 players conduct appendix definitions and of words and phrases not defined in the te. appendix lawthe bat appendix lawsthe pitch andthe creases appendix lawthe wickets appendix wicket keeping glovesthe preamble the spirit of cricket cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played not only according to the laws but also within the spirit of cricket. the major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains but to all players match officials and especially in junior cricket teachers coaches and parents. respect is central to the spirit of cricket. respect your captain teammates opponents and the authority of the umpires. play hard and play fair. accept the umpire decision. create positive atmosphere by your own conduct and encourage others to do likewise. show self discipline even when things go against you. congratulate the opposition on their successes and enjoy those of your own team. thank the officials and your opposition at the end of the match whatever the result. cricket is an game that encourages leadership friendship and teamwork which brings together people from different nationalities cultures and religions especially when played within the spirit of cricket. the players umpires and scorers in game of cricket may be of any gender and the laws apply equally. the use throughout the te of pronouns binary he she is as inclusive as practicable whilst retaining clarity. where specifically stated otherwise every provision of the laws is to be read as applying to all persons regardless of gender.lawthe players 1.1 number of players match is played between two sides each of eleven players one of whom shall be captain. by agreement match may be played between sides of fewer than or more than eleven players but not more than eleven players may field at any time. if during the match and for whatever reason side is reduced to fewer than the original number of nominated players the match shall continue as long as it is possible to do so under the laws or any agreements made before the toss. 1.2 nomination and replacement of players 1.2.1 each captain shall nominate his her players in writing to one of the umpires before the toss. 1.2.2 no player may be replaced after the nomination without the consent of the opposing captain. 1.2.3 any replacement player shall be considered the same player as the nominated player he she replaced for the purposes of these laws. 1.2.3.1 replacement shall not bat in an innings in which the nominated player he she is replacing has completed his her innings. 1.2.3.2 any unserved penalty time warnings or suspensions that applied to the original nominated player will be inherited by his her replacement. 1.3 captain 1.3.1 if at any time the captain is not available deputy shall act for him her. 1.3.2 if captain is not available to nominate the players then any person associated with that team may act as his her deputy to do so. see 1.2. 1.3.3 at any time after the nomination of the players only nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these laws including at the toss. see law 13.4 the toss . 1.4 responsibility of captains the captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is conducted within the spirit of cricket as well as within the laws. see the preamble the spirit of cricket and law 41.1 fair and unfair play responsibility of captains . lawthe umpires 2.1 appointment and attendance before the match two umpires shall be appointed one for each end to control the match as required by the laws with absolute impartiality. the umpires shall be present on the ground and report to the of the ground at least 45 minutes before the scheduled start of each day play. 2.2 change of umpire an umpire shall not be changed during the match other than in circumstances unless he she is injured or ill. if there has to be change of umpire the replacement shall act only as the striker end umpire unless the captains agree that the replacement should take full responsibility as an umpire. 2.3 consultation with captains before the toss the umpires shall 2.3.1 meet with the captains the umpires shall determine 2.3.1.1 the balls to be used during the match. see lawthe ball .2.3.1.2 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed intervals. in match of one day duration no specific time need be agreed for the tea interval. it may be agreed instead to take this interval between innings. see law 11 intervals . 2.3.1.3 which clock or watch and back up timepiece is to be used during the match. 2.3.1.4 the boundary of the field of play and allowances for boundaries including whether any obstacle within the field of play is to be regarded as boundary. see law 19 boundaries . 2.3.1.5 the use of covers. see law 10 covering the pitch . 2.3.1.6 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match. 2.3.2 inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.1.2 2.3.1.3 2.3.1.4 and 2.3.1.6. 2.4 the wickets creases and boundaries before the toss and during the match the umpires shall satisfy themselves that 2.4.1 the creases are correctly marked. see lawthe creases . 2.4.2 the wickets are properly pitched. see lawthe wickets . 2.4.3 the boundary of the field of play complies with the requirements of laws 19.1 determining the boundary of the field of play 19.2 identifying and marking the boundary and 19.3 restoring the boundary . 2.5 conduct of the match implements and equipment before the toss and during the match the umpires shall satisfy themselves that 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with the laws. 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following 2.5.2.1 lawthe ball . 2.5.2.2 visible requirements of lawthe bat and appendix . 2.5.2.3 either laws 8.2 size of stumps and 8.3 the bails or if applicable law 8.4 junior cricket . 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted. see appendix .2. note particularly therein the interpretation of helmet . 2.5.4 the wicket keeper gloves comply with the requirements of law 27.2 gloves . 2.6 fair and unfair play the umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. 2.7 fitness for play 2.7.1 it is solely for the umpires together to decide whether either conditions of ground weather or light or circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable for play to take place. conditions shall not be regarded as either dangerous or unreasonable merely because they are not ideal. the fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous. 2.7.2 conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire. 2.7.3 conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if although posing no risk to safety it would not be sensible for play to proceed. 2.7.4 if the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to deprive the bowler ofreasonable foothold the fielders of the power of free movement or the batters of the ability to play their strokes or to run between the wickets then these conditions shall be regarded as so bad that it would be dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place. 2.8 suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances 2.8.1 all references to ground include the pitch. see law 6.1 area of pitch . 2.8.2 the umpires shall immediately suspend play or not allow play to start or to recommence if either umpire considers that the conditions of ground weather or light or any other circumstances are either dangerous or unreasonable. 2.8.3 when there is suspension of play it is the responsibility of the umpires to monitor conditions. they shall make inspections as often as appropriate unaccompanied by any players or officials. immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the players to resume play. 2.9 position of umpires the umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which their decision may be required. subject to this over riding consideration the bowler end umpire shall stand in position so as not to interfere with either the bowler run up or the striker view. the striker end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the on side of the pitch provided he she informs the captain of the fielding side the striker and the other umpire. 2.10 umpires changing ends the umpires shall change ends after each side has had one completed innings. see law 13.3 completed innings . 2.11 disagreement and dispute where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter the umpires together shall make the final decision. see also law 31.6 consultation by umpires . 2.12 umpire decision an umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made promptly and does not contradict law 20.6 dead ball not to be revoked . this apart an umpire decision once made is final. 2.13 signals 2.13.1 the following code of signals shall be used by umpires 2.13.1.1 signals made while the ball is in play dead ball by crossing and re crossing the wrists below the waist. no ball by one arm horizontally. out by raising an index finger above the head. if not out the umpire shall call not out. wide by both arms horizontally. 2.13.1.2 when the ball is dead the bowler end umpire shall repeat the signals in 2.13.1.1 with the of the signal for out to the scorers. 2.13.1.3 the signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only when the ball is dead. boundaryby waving an arm from side to side finishing with the arm across the chest. boundaryby raising both arms above the head. bye by raising an open hand above the head.commencement by pointing to raised wrist with the of last hour other hand. five penalty by repeated tapping of one shoulder runs awarded to with the opposite hand. the batting side five penalty by placing one hand on the opposite runs awarded to shoulder. the fielding side leg bye by touching raised knee with the hand. new ball by holding the ball above the head. revoke by touching both shoulders each with last signal the opposite hand. short run by bending one arm upwards and touching the nearer shoulder with the tips of the fingers. the following signals are for levelandoffences in law 42 players conduct . each signal has two parts both of which should be acknowledged separately by the scorers. levelconduct partby putting one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raising it and lowering it. partby raising both hands all fingers spread to shoulder height palms facing towards the scorers. levelconduct partby putting one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raising it and lowering it. partby raising an index finger held at shoulder height to the side of the body. 2.13.1.4 all the signals in 2.13.1.3 are to be made by the bowler end umpire that for short run which is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short running occurs. however the bowler end umpire shall be responsible both for the final signal of short run to the scorers and if more than one run is short for informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded. 2.13.2 the umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been separately acknowledged by scorer before allowing play to proceed. if several signals are to be used they should be given in the order that the events occurred. 2.14 informing the umpires throughout the laws wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other players it will be sufficient for one umpire to be so informed and for him her to inform the other umpire. 2.15 correctness of scores consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is essential. the umpires shall throughout the match satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the number of runs scored the wickets that have fallen and where appropriate the number of overs bowled. they shall agree these with the scorers at least at every interval other than drinks interval and at the conclusion of the match. see laws 3.2 correctness of scores 16.8 correctness of result and 16.10 result not to be changed . lawthe scorers 3.1 appointment of scorers two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored all wickets taken and where appropriate number of overs bowled. 3.2 correctness of scores the scorers shall frequently check to ensure that their records agree. they shall agree with the umpires at least at every interval other than drinks intervals and at the conclusion of the match the runs scored the wickets that have fallen and where appropriate the number of overs bowled. see law 2.15 correctness of scores . 3.3 acknowledging signals the scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal. lawthe ball 4.1 weight and size the ball when new shall weigh not less than 5.5 ounces 155.9 nor more than 5.75 ounces 163 and shall measure not less than 8.81 in 22.4 cm nor more thanin 22.9 cm in circumference. 4.2 approval and control of balls 4.2.1 all balls to be used in the match having been determined by the umpires shall be in the possession of the umpires before the toss and shall remain under their control throughout the match. 4.2.2 the umpire shall take possession of the ball in use at the fall of each wicket at the start of any interval and at any interruption of play. 4.3 new ball unless an agreement to the contrary has been made before the match either captain may demand new ball at the start of each innings. 4.4 new ball in match of more than one day duration in match of more than one day duration the captain of the fielding side may demand new ball when the number of overs any part overs bowled with the old one is equal to or greater than 80 overs. the umpire shall inform the other umpire and indicate to the batters and the scorers whenever new ball is taken into play. 4.5 ball lost or becoming unfit for play if during play the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires agree that it has become unfit for play through normal use the umpires shall replace it with ball which has had wear comparable with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its replacement. when the ball is replaced the umpire shall inform the batters and the fielding captain. 4.6 specifications the specifications as described in 4.1 shall apply to men cricket only. the following specifications shall apply to 4.6.1 women cricket weight from 4.94 ounces 140 to 5.31 ounces 151 circumference from 8.25 in 21.0 cm to 8.88 in 22.5 cm. 4.6.2 junior cricket under 13 weight from 4.69 ounces 133 to 5.06 ounces 144 circumference from 8.06 in 20.5 cm to 8.69 in 22.0 cm. lawthe bat 5.1 the bat 5.1.1 the bat consists of two parts handle and blade. 5.1.2 the basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set out in this law with detailed specifications in appendix . 5.2 the handle 5.2.1 the handle is to be made principally of cane and or wood. 5.2.2 the part of the handle that is wholly outside the blade is defined to be the upper portion of the handle. it is straight shaft for holding the bat. 5.2.3 the upper portion of the handle may be covered with grip as defined in appendix .2.2. 5.3 the blade 5.3.1 the blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle as defined in 5.2 and in appendix .3. 5.3.2 the blade shall consist solely of wood. 5.3.3 all bats may have commercial identifications on the blade the size of which must comply with the relevant specification in appendix .6. 5.4 protection and repair subject to the specifications in appendix .4 and providing 5.5 is not contravened 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of either protection from surface damage to the face sides and shoulders of the blade or repair to the blade after surface damage material that is not rigid either at the time of its application to the blade or subsequently may be placed on these surfaces. 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade. 5.4.2.2 the only material permitted for any insertion is wood with minimal essential adhesives. 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe material may be placed on that part of the blade but shall not over any part of the face back or sides of the blade. 5.5 damage to the ball 5.5.1 for any part of the bat covered or uncovered the hardness of the constituent materials and the surface te thereof shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable damage to the ball. 5.5.2 any material placed on any part of the bat for whatever purpose shall similarly not be such that it could cause unacceptable damage to the ball. 5.5.3 for the purpose of this law unacceptable damage is any change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade. 5.6 contact with the ball in these laws 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batter hand or glove worn on his her hand unless stated otherwise. 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to 5.6.2.4 5.6.2.1 the bat itself 5.6.2.2 the batter hand holding the bat 5.6.2.3 any part of glove worn on the batter hand holding the bat 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 5.4 shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat or being struck by the bat. 5.7 bat size limits 5.7.1 the overall length of the bat when the lower portion of the handle is inserted shall not be more than 38 in 96.52 cm. 5.7.2 the blade of the bat shall not the following dimensions width 4.25in 10.8 cm depth 2.64in 6.7 cm edges 1.56in 4.0cm. furthermore it should also be able to pass through bat gauge as described in appendix .8. 5.7.3 for bats of sizeand less the handle shall not 52 of the overall length of the bat. 5.7.4 the material permitted for covering the blade in 5.4.1 shall not 0.04 in 0.1 cm in thickness. 5.7.5 the ma permitted thickness of protective material placed on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in 0.3 cm. 5.8 categories of bat 5.8.1 types and are bats conforming to 5.1 to 5.7 inclusive. 5.8.2 type bats may be used at any level of cricket. 5.8.3 the specifications for type bats are described in appendix .7 and are for use by junior players in junior cricket only. 5.8.4 bats of type type type and any other bats may be used only at or below levels determined by the governing body for cricket in the country concerned. 5.8.5 bats that do not qualify for any of the four categories to are not recognised in the laws. lawthe pitch 6.1 area of pitch the pitch is rectangular area of the ground 22 yards 20.12 in length and 10 ft 3.05 in width. it is bounded at either end by the bowling creases and on either side by imaginary lines one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps each parallel to it andft 1.52 from it. if the pitch is ne to an artificial pitch which is closer thanft 1.52 from the middle stumps the pitch on that side will only to the junction of the two surfaces. see 6.6 law 8.1 description width and pitching law 7.2 the bowling crease and appendix . 6.2 fitness of pitch for play the umpires shall be the sole judges of the fitness of the pitch for play. see laws 2.7 fitness for play and 2.8 suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable conditions . 6.3 selection and preparation before the match the ground authority shall be responsible for the selection and preparation of the pitch. during the match the umpires shall control its use and maintenance. 6.4 changing the pitch the pitch shall not be changed during the match unless the umpires decide that it is dangerous or unreasonable for play to continue on it and then only with the consent of both captains. 6.5 non turf pitches in the event of non turf pitch being used the artificial surface shall conform to the following measurements length minimum of 58 ft 17.68 width minimum offt 1.83 see law 9.8 non turf pitches . 6.6 junior cricket the governing body for cricket in the country concerned shall determine the length of the pitch for junior cricket. lawthe creases 7.1 the creases the positions of bowling crease popping crease and two return creases shall be marked by white lines as set out in 7.2 7.3 and 7.4 at each end of the pitch. see appendix . 7.2 the bowling crease the bowling crease which is the back edge of the crease marking is the line that marks the end of the pitch as in law 6.1 area of pitch . it shall beftin 2.64 in length. 7.3 the popping crease the popping crease which is the back edge of the crease marking shall be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall beft 1.22 from it. the popping crease shall be marked to minimum offt 1.83 on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length. 7.4 the return creases the return creases which are the inside edges of the crease markings shall be at right angles to the popping crease at distance offtin 1.32 either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps. each return crease shall be marked from the popping crease to minimum offt 2.44 behind it and shall be considered to be unlimited in length. lawthe wickets 8.1 description width and pitching two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other in the centres of the bowling creases. each set shall bein 22.86 cm wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails on top. see appendix . 8.2 size of stumps the tops of the stumps shall be 28 in 71.12 cm above the playing surface and shall be dome shaped for the bail grooves. the portion of stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the domed top with circular section of diameter not less than 1.38 in 3.50 cm nor more than 1.5 in 3.81 cm. see appendix . 8.3 the bails 8.3.1 the bails when in position on top of the stumps shall not project more than 0.5 in 1.27 cm above them. shall fit between the stumps without forcing them out of the vertical. 8.3.2 each bail shall conform to the following specifications see appendix overall length 4.31 in 10.95 cm length of barrel 2.13 in 5.40 cm longer spigot 1.38 in 3.50 cm shorter spigot 0.81 in 2.06 cm. 8.3.3 the two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line. 8.3.4 devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance that bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed subject to the approval of the governing body for the match and the ground authority. 8.4 junior cricket the governing body for cricket in the country concerned shall determine the dimensions of the stumps and bails. 8.5 dispensing with bails the umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails if necessary. if they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. the use of bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. see law 29.5 dispensing with bails . lawpreparation and maintenance of the playing area 9.1 rolling the pitch shall not be rolled during the match as permitted in 9.1.1 and 9.1.2. 9.1.1 frequency and duration of rolling during the match the pitch may be rolled at the request of the captain of the batting side for period of not more thanminutes before the start of each innings other than the first innings of the match and before the start of each subsequent day play. see 9.1.4. 9.1.2 rolling after delayed start in addition to the rolling permitted above if after the toss and before the first innings of the match the start is delayed the captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled for not more thanminutes. however if the umpires together agree that the delay has had no significant effect on the state of the pitch they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch. 9.1.3 choice of rollers if there is more than one roller available the captain of the batting side shall choose which one is to be used. 9.1.4 timing of permitted rolling the rolling permitted maminutes before play begins on any day shall be started not more than 30 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. the captain of the batting side may however delay the start of such rolling until not less than 10 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. 9.2 clearing debris from the pitch 9.2.1 the pitch shall be cleared of any debris 9.2.1.1 before the start of each day play. this shall be after the completion of mowing and before any rolling not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 10 minutes before the time or any rescheduled time for start of play. 9.2.1.2 between innings. this shall precede rolling if any is to take place. 9.2.1.3 at all intervals for meals. 9.2.2 the clearance of debris in 9.2.1 shall be done by sweeping where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental to the surface of the pitch. in this case the debris must be cleared from that area by hand without sweeping. 9.2.3 in addition to 9.2.1 debris may be cleared from the pitch by hand without sweeping before mowing and whenever either umpire considers it necessary. 9.3 mowing 9.3.1 responsibility for mowing 9.3.1.1 all mowings which are carried out before the match shall be the sole responsibility of the ground authority. 9.3.1.2 all subsequent mowings shall be carried out under the supervision of the umpires. 9.3.2 the pitch and outfield in order that throughout the match the ground conditions should be as nearly the same for both sides as possible both the pitch and the outfield shall be mown on each day of the match on which play is to take place if ground and weather conditions permit. if for reasons other than conditions of ground or weather complete mowing of the outfield is not possible the ground authority shall notify the captains and umpires of the procedure to be adopted for such mowing during the match. 9.3.3 timing of mowing 9.3.3.1 mowing of the pitch on any day shall be completed not later than 30 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day before any sweeping prior to rolling. if necessary debris may be removed from the pitch before mowing by hand without sweeping. see 9.2.3. 9.3.3.2 mowing of the outfield on any day shall be completed not later than 15 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day. 9.4 watering the pitch the pitch shall not be watered during the match. 9.5 re marking creases creases shall be re marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary. 9.6 maintenance of footholes the umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and batters are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play. in matches of more than one day duration the umpires shall allow if necessary the re turfing of footholes made by the bowlers in their delivery strides or the use of quick setting fillings for the same purpose. 9.7 securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch during play umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and that law 41 unfair play is not contravened. 9.8 non turf pitches wherever appropriate the provisions set out in 9.1 to 9.7 shall apply. law 10 covering the pitch 10.1 before the match the use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the ground authority and may include full covering if required. however the ground authority shall grant suitable facility to the captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in lawsthe umpiresthe pitchthe creasesthe wickets andpreparation and maintenance of the playing area . 10.2 during the match unless determined otherwise before the toss on each night of the match and in inclement weather at any time during the match 10.2.1 the whole pitch and minimum offt 1.22 beyond it at each end shall be covered. 10.2.2 the bowlers run ups where possible shall be covered. 10.3 removal of covers 10.3.1 if after the toss the pitch is covered overnight the covers shall be removed as soon as practicable on each day that play is to take place. 10.3.2 if covers are used during the day as protection from inclement weather or if inclement weather delays the removal of overnight covers they shall be removed promptly as soon as conditions allow. law 11 intervals 11.1 an interval 11.1.1 the following shall be classed as intervals the period between close of play on one day and the start of the ne day play. intervals between innings. intervals for meals. intervals for drinks. any other agreed interval. 11.1.2 only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for the purposes of law 24.2.6 fielder absent or leaving the field of play . 11.2 duration of intervals 11.2.1 an interval for lunch or tea shall be of the duration determined under law 2.3 consultation with captains taken from the call of time before the interval until the call of play on resumption after the interval. 11.2.2 an interval between innings shall be 10 minutes commencing from the close of an innings until the call of play for the start of the ne innings. see however 11.3 11.5 and 11.6. 11.3 allowance for interval between innings in addition to the provisions of 11.5 and 11.6 11.3.1 if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the time agreed for close of play on any day there shall be no further play on that day. no change shall be made to the time for the start of play on the following day on account of the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.3.2 if captain declares an innings closed or forfeits an innings during an interruption in play of more than 10 minutes duration provided that at least 10 minutes remains of the interruption no adjustment shall be made to the time for resumption of play on account of the 10 minute interval between innings which shall be considered as included in the interruption. if less than 10 minutes remains of the interruption when the captain declares the innings closed or forfeits an innings the ne innings shall commence 10 minutes after the declaration or forfeiture is made. 11.3.3 if captain declares an innings closed or forfeits an innings during any interval other than an interval for drinks provided that at least 10 minutes remains of the interval the interval shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings. if less than 10 minutes remains of the interval when the captain declares the innings closed or forfeits an innings the interval shall be as necessary and the ne innings shall commence 10 minutes after the declaration or forfeiture is made. 11.4 changing agreed times of intervals if at any time during the match either playing time is lost through adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances or the players have occasion to leave the field other than at scheduled interval the time of the lunch interval or of the tea interval may be changed if the two umpires and both captains so agree providing the requirements of 11.2 and 11.5 11.6 11.7 and 11.8.3 are not contravened. 11.5 changing agreed time for lunch interval 11.5.1 if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for lunch the interval shall be taken immediately. it shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.5.2 if because of adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances stoppage occurs when 10 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for lunch then whether or not agreement is reached in the circumstances of 11.4 the interval shall be taken immediately. it shall be of the agreed duration. play shall resume at the end of this interval or as soon after as conditions permit. 11.5.3 if the players have occasion to leave the field for any reason when more than 10 minutes remains before the agreed time for lunch then unless the umpires and captains together agree to alter it lunch shall be taken at the agreed time. 11.6 changing agreed time for tea interval 11.6.1 if an innings ends when 30 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for tea the interval shall be taken immediately. it shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.6.2 if when 30 minutes remains before the agreed time for tea an interval between innings is already in progress play shall resume at the end of the 10 minute interval if conditions permit. 11.6.3 if because of adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances stoppage occurs when 30 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for tea then unless either there is an agreement to change the time for tea as permitted in 11.4 or the captains agree to forgo the tea interval as permitted in 11.9 the interval shall be taken immediately. the interval shall be of the agreed duration. play shall resume at the end of the interval or as soon after as conditions permit. 11.6.4 if stoppage is already in progress when 30 minutes remains before the agreed time for tea 11.4 shall apply. 11.7 lunch or tea intervalwickets down for the lunch interval and for the tea interval if eitherwickets are already down whenminutes remains to the agreed time for the interval or the 9th wicket falls within thisminutes or at any time up to and including the final ball of the over in progress at the agreed time for the interval then the provisions of law 12.5.2 shall not apply and the interval will not be taken until the end of the over that is in progress 30 minutes after the originally agreed time for the interval unless the players have cause to leave the field of play or the innings is completed earlier. for the purposes of this section of law the retirement of batter is not to be considered equivalent to the fall of wicket. 11.8 intervals for drinks 11.8.1 if on any day the umpires determine that there shall be intervals for drinks the option to take such drinks shall be available to either side. each interval shall be kept as short as possible and in any case shall notminutes. 11.8.2 unless as permitted in 11.9 the captains agree to forgo it drinks interval shall be taken at the end of the over in progress when the agreed time is reached. if however wicket falls or batter retires withinminutes of the agreed time then drinks shall be taken immediately. no other variation in the timing of drinks intervals shall be permitted as provided for in 11.8.3. 11.8.3 if an innings ends or the players have to leave the field of play for any other reason within 30 minutes of the agreed time for drinks interval the umpires and captains together may rearrange the timing of drinks intervals in that session. 11.8.4 intervals for drinks may not be taken during the last hour of the match as defined in law 12.6 last hour of match number of overs . subject to this limitation the umpires shall determine the times for such intervals if any before the toss and on each subsequent day not later than 10 minutes before play is scheduled to start. 11.9 agreement to forgo intervals at any time during the match the captains may agree to forgo the tea interval or any of the drinks intervals. the umpires shall be informed of the decision. when play is in progress the batters at the wicket may deputise for their captain in making an agreement to forgo drinks interval in that session. 11.10 scorers to be informed the umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as permitted under this law. law 12 start of play cessation of play 12.1 call of play the bowler end umpire shall call play before the first ball of the match and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption. 12.2 call of time the bowler end umpire shall call time when the ball is dead at the end of any session of play or as required by the laws. see also law 20.3 call of over or time . 12.3 removal of bails after the call of time the bails shall be removed from both wickets. 12.4 starting new over another over shall always be started at any time during the match unless an interval is to be taken in the circumstances set out in 12.5.2 if the umpire walking at normal pace has arrived at the position behind the stumps at the bowler end before the time agreed for the ne interval or for the close of play has been reached. 12.5 completion of an over other than at the end of the match 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over the over shall be completed before the interval is taken as provided for in 12.5.2. 12.5.2 when less thanminutes remains before the time agreed for the ne interval the interval shall be taken immediately if either batter is dismissed or retires or the players have occasion to leave the field whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. at the end of an innings if an over is thus interrupted it shall be completed on the resumption of play. 12.6 last hour of match number of overs when one hour of playing time of the match remains according to the agreed hours of play the over in progress shall be completed. the ne over shall be the first of minimum of 20 overs which must be bowled provided that result is not reached earlier and provided that there is no interval or interruption in play. the bowler end umpire shall indicate the commencement of this 20 overs to the players and to the scorers. the period of play thereafter shall be referred to as the last hour whatever its actual duration. when the minimum number of overs have been bowled in the last hour further overs can be started only if the original time for the close of play has not been reached. see 12.7 and 12.8. 12.7 last hour of match interruptions of play if there is an interruption in play during the last hour of the match the minimum number of overs to be bowled shall be reduced from 20 as follows. 12.7.1 the time lost for an interruption is counted from the call of time until the time for resumption as decided by the umpires. 12.7.2 one over shall be deducted for every completeminutes of time lost. 12.7.3 in the case of more than one such interruption the minutes lost shall not be aggregated the calculation shall be made for each interruption separately. 12.7.4 if when one hour of playing time remains an interruption is already in progress 12.7.4.1 only the time lost after this moment shall be counted in the calculation. 12.7.4.2 the over in progress at the start of the interruption shall be completed on resumption and shall not count as one of the minimum number of overs to be bowled. 12.7.5 if after the start of the last hour an interruption occurs during an over the over shall be completed on resumption of play. the two part overs shall between them count as one over of the minimum number to be bowled. 12.8 last hour of match intervals between innings if an innings ends so that new innings is to be started during the last hour of the match the interval starts with the end of the innings and is to end 10 minutes later. 12.8.1 if this interval is already in progress at the start of the last hour then to determine the number of overs to be bowled in the new innings calculations are to be made as set out in 12.7. 12.8.2 if the innings ends after the last hour has started two calculations are to be made as set out in 12.8.3 and 12.8.4. the greater of the numbers yielded by these two calculations is to be the minimum number of overs to be bowled in the new innings. 12.8.3 calculation based on overs remaining at the conclusion of the innings the number of overs that remain to be bowled of the minimum in the last hour to be noted. if this is not whole number it is to be rounded up to the ne whole number. three overs for the interval to be deducted from the resulting number to determine the number of overs still to be bowled. 12.8.4 calculation based on time remaining at the conclusion of the innings the time remaining until the agreed time for close of play to be noted. 10 minutes for the interval to be deducted from this time to determine the playing time remaining. calculation to be made of one over for every completeminutes of the playing time remaining plus one more over if further part ofminutes remains. 12.9 conclusion of match 12.9.1 the match is concluded 12.9.1.1 as soon as result as defined in laws 16.1 to 16.4 and 16.5.1 the result is reached. 12.9.1.2 as soon as both the minimum number of overs for the last hour are completed and the agreed time for close of play is reached unless result is reached earlier. 12.9.1.3 in the case of an agreement under law 13.1.2 number of innings as soon as the final innings is completed as defined in law 13.3.5 completed innings . 12.9.2 the match is concluded if without conclusion having been reached under 12.9.1 the players leave the field for adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances and no further play is possible. 12.10 completion of last over of match the over in progress at the close of play on the final day shall be completed unless either result has been reached or the players have occasion to leave the field. in this case there shall be no resumption of play in the circumstances of law 16.9 mistakes in scoring and the match shall be at an end. 12.11 bowler unable to complete an over during last hour of match if for any reason bowler is unable to complete an over during the last hour law 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over shall apply. the separate parts of such an over shall count as one over of the minimum to be bowled. law 13 innings 13.1 number of innings 13.1.1 match shall be one or two innings for each side according to agreement reached before the match. 13.1.2 it may be agreed to limit any innings to number of overs or to period of time. if such an agreement is made then 13.1.2.1 in one innings match similar agreement shall apply to both innings. 13.1.2.2 in two innings match similar agreements shall apply to the first innings of each side or to the second innings of each side or to both innings of each side. for both one innings and two innings matches the agreement must also include criteria for determining the result when neither of laws 16.1 win two innings match or 16.2 win one innings match applies. 13.2 alternate innings in two innings match each side shall take their innings alternately in the cases provided for in law 14 the follow on or in law 15.2 forfeiture of an innings . 13.3 completed innings side innings is to be considered as completed if any of the following applies 13.3.1 the side is all out. 13.3.2 at the fall of wicket or the retirement of batter further balls remain to be bowled but no further batter is available to come in. 13.3.3 the captain declares the innings closed. 13.3.4 the captain forfeits the innings. 13.3.5 in the case of an agreement under 13.1.2 either the prescribed number of overs has been bowled or the prescribed time has as appropriate. 13.4 the toss the captains shall toss coin for the choice of innings on the field of play and in the presence of one or both of the umpires not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any rescheduled time for the start of play. note however the provisions of law 1.3 captain . 13.5 decision to be notified as soon as the toss is completed the captain of the side winning the toss shall decide whether to bat or to field and shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of this decision. once notified the decision cannot be changed. law 14 the follow on 14.1 lead on first innings 14.1.1 in two innings match ofdays or more the side which bats first and leads by at least 200 runs shall have the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings. 14.1.2 the same option shall be available in two innings matches of shorter duration with the minimum leads as follows 150 runs in match ofordays 100 runs inday match 75 runs inday match. 14.2 notification captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of his her intention to enforce the follow on. once notified the decision cannot be changed. 14.3 first day play lost if no play takes place on the first day of match of more than one day duration 14.1 shall apply in accordance with the number of days remaining from the start of play. the day on which play first commences shall count as whole day for this purpose irrespective of the time at which play starts. play will have taken place as soon as after the call of play the first over has started. see law 17.2 start of an over . law 15 declaration and forfeiture 15.1 time of declaration the captain of the side batting may declare an innings closed when the ball is dead at any time during the innings. declared innings shall be considered to be completed innings. 15.2 forfeiture of an innings captain may forfeit either of his her side innings at any time before the commencement of that innings. forfeited innings shall be considered to be completed innings. 15.3 notification captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of any decision to declare or to forfeit an innings. once notified the decision cannot be changed. law 16 the result 16.1 win two innings match the side which has scored total of runs in of that scored in the two completed innings of the opposing side shall win the match. see law 13.3 completed innings . note also 16.6. 16.2 win one innings match the side which has scored in its one innings total of runs in of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed innings shall win the match. see law 13.3 completed innings . note also 16.6. 16.3 umpires awarding match regardless of any agreement under law 13.1.2 number of innings 16.3.1 match shall be lost by side which 16.3.1.1 concedes defeat 16.3.1.2 in the opinion of the umpires refuses to play. if so the umpires shall award the match to the other side. 16.3.2 if an umpire considers that an action by any player or players might constitute refusal by either side to play then the umpires together shall ascertain the cause of the action. if they then decide together that this action does constitute refusal to play by one side they shall so inform the captain of that side. if the captain persists in the action the umpires shall award the match in accordance with 16.3.1. see also law 42.6.1 captain refusing to remove player from the field . 16.3.3 if action as in 16.3.2 takes place after play has started and does not constitute refusal to play playing time shall be counted as lost from the call of time to the call of play intervals law 11 and suspensions of play law 2.8 . the time for close of play on that day shall be by this length of time. if applicable no overs shall be deducted during the last hour of the match solely on account of this time. 16.4 matches in which there is an agreement under law 13.1.2 for any match in which there is an agreement under law 13.1.2 number of innings if the result is not determined in any of the ways stated in 16.1 16.2 or 16.3 then the result shall be as laid down in that agreement. 16.5 all other matches tie or draw 16.5.1 tie the result of match shall be tie when all innings have been completed and the scores are equal. 16.5.2 draw the result of match shall be draw when it is not determined in any of the ways stated in 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 16.5.1 or when law 42.6.2 captain refusing to remove player from the field is applied. 16.6 winning hit or 16.6.1 as soon as result is reached as defined in 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 or 16.5.1 the match is at an end. nothing that happens thereafter as in law 41.17.2 penalty runs shall be regarded as part of it. note also 16.9. 16.6.2 the side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if its total of runs is sufficient without including any runs completed by the batters before the completion of catch or the obstruction of catch from which the striker could be dismissed. 16.6.3 if boundary is scored before the batters have completed sufficient runs to win the match the whole of the boundary allowance shall be credited to the side total and in the case of hit by the bat to the striker score. 16.7 statement of result if the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets the result shall be stated as win by the number of wickets still then to fall. if without having scored total of runs in of the total scored by the opposing side the innings of the side batting last has been completed but as the result of an award ofpenalty runs its total of runs is then sufficient to win the result shall be stated as win to that side by penalty runs. if the side fielding last wins the match the result shall be stated as win by runs. if the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play the result shall be stated as match conceded or match awarded as the case may be. 16.8 correctness of result any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the responsibility of the umpires. see law 2.15 correctness of scores . 16.9 mistakes in scoring if after the players and umpires have left the field in the belief that the match has been concluded the umpires discover that mistake in scoring has occurred which affects the result then subject to 16.10 they shall adopt the following procedure. 16.9.1 if when the players leave the field the side batting last has not completed its innings and either the number of overs to be bowled in the last hour or in that innings has not been completed or the agreed time for close of play or for the end of the innings has not been reached then unless one side concedes defeat the umpires shall order play to resume. unless result is reached sooner play will then continue if conditions permit until the prescribed number of overs has been completed and either time for close of play has been reached or the allotted time for the innings has as appropriate. the number of overs and time remaining shall be taken as they were at the call of time for the supposed conclusion of the match. no account shall be taken of the time between that moment and the resumption of play. 16.9.2 if at this call of time the overs have been completed and no playing time remains or if the side batting last has completed its innings the umpires shall immediately inform both captains of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result. 16.10 result not to be changed once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the scores at the conclusion of the match see laws 2.15 correctness of scores and 3.2 correctness of scores the result cannot thereafter be changed. law 17 the over 17.1 number of balls the ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs ofvalid balls. 17.2 start of an over an over has started when the bowler starts his her run up or if there is no run up starts his her action for the first delivery of that over. 17.3 validity of balls 17.3.1 ball shall not count as one of theballs of the over unless it is delivered even though as in law 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early batter may be dismissed or some other incident occurs without the ball having been delivered. 17.3.2 ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of theballs of the over 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead or is to be considered dead before the striker has had an opportunity to play it. see law 20.7 dead ball ball counting as one of over . 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of law 20.4.2.6. note also the special provisions of law 20.4.2.5 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . 17.3.2.3 if it is no ball. see law 21 no ball . 17.3.2.4 if it is wide. see law 22 wide ball . 17.3.2.5 when any of laws 24.4 player returning without permission 28.2 fielding the ball 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker or 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter is applied. 17.3.3 any deliveries other than those listed in 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 shall be known as valid balls. only valid balls shall count towards theballs of the over. 17.4 call of over whenvalid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead the umpire shall call over before leaving the wicket. see also law 20.3 call of over or time . 17.5 umpire miscounting 17.5.1 if the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls the over as counted by the umpire shall stand. 17.5.2 if having miscounted the umpire allows an over to continue aftervalid balls have been bowled he she may subsequently call over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery even if that delivery is not valid ball. 17.6 bowler changing ends bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired provided he she does not bowl two overs consecutively nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs in the same innings. 17.7 finishing an over 17.7.1 other than at the end of an innings bowler shall finish an over in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under any of the laws. 17.7.2 if for any reason other than the end of an innings an over is left uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption it shall be completed on resumption of play. 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over if for any reason bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver the first ball of an over or is incapacitated during an over the umpire shall call and signal dead ball. if bowler is incapacitated or suspended during an over another bowler shall complete the over from the same end provided that he she does not bowl two overs consecutively nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs in that innings. law 18 scoring runs 18.1 run the score shall be reckoned by runs. run is scored 18.1.1 so often as the batters at any time while the ball is in play have crossed and made good their ground from end to end. 18.1.2 when boundary is scored. see law 19 boundaries . 18.1.3 when penalty runs are awarded. see 18.6. 18.2 runs disallowed and runs not scored wherever in these laws provision is made for the scoring of runs or awarding of penalties such runs and penalties will be subject to any provisions that may be applicable for run to be disallowed or run not to be scored see appendix .11 or for the non award of penalties. when runs are disallowed the one run penalty for no ball or wide shall stand andrun penalties shall be allowed for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 18.3 short runs 18.3.1 run is short if batter fails to make good his her ground in turning for further run. 18.3.2 although short run shortens the succeeding one the latter if completed shall not be regarded as short. striker setting off for the first run from in front of the popping crease may do so also without penalty. 18.4 unintentional short runs in the circumstances of 18.5 18.4.1 if either batter runs short run the umpire concerned shall unless boundary is scored call and signal short run as soon as the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored. 18.4.2 if after either or both batters run short boundary is scored the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall not call or signal short run unless the boundary is result of an overthrow or wilful act of fielder see law 19.8 overthrow or wilful act of fielder . 18.4.3 if both batters run short in one and the same run this shall be regarded as only one short run. 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then subject to 18.4.2 and 18.4.3 all runs called as short shall not be scored. 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run the umpire shall inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded. 18.5 deliberate short runs 18.5.1 if either umpire considers that one or both batters deliberately ran short at that umpire end the umpire concerned shall when the ball is dead call and signal short run and inform the other umpire of what has occurred and apply 18.5.2. 18.5.2 the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable repeat the short run signal to the scorers awardpenalty runs to the fielding side award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side inform the scorers of the number of runs to be recorded inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. 18.5.3 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 18.6 runs awarded for penalties runs shall be awarded for penalties under 18.5 and laws 21 no ball 22 wide ball 24.4 player returning without permission 26.4 penalties for contravention 28.2 fielding the ball 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 41 unfair play and 42 players conduct . note however the restrictions on the award of penalty runs under 18.5 and laws 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 34 hit the ball twice 41.14 batter damaging the pitch and 41.15 striker in protected area . 18.7 runs scored for boundaries runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under law 19 boundaries . 18.8 runs scored when batter is dismissed when batter is dismissed any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. no other runs shall be credited to the batting side as follows. 18.8.1 if batter is dismissed obstructing the field the batting side shall also score any runs completed before the offence. if however the obstruction or distraction prevented catch being made no runs other than penalties shall be scored. 18.8.2 if batter is dismissed run out the batting side shall also score any runs completed before the wicket was fairly broken. if however striker who has runner is himself herself dismissed run out under law 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner any runs completed by the runner and the other batter shall be disallowed. 18.9 runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of wicket when the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of wicket or is called dead by an umpire unless there is specific provision otherwise in the laws any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall be scored. note however the provisions of laws 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded and 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed by the batters before the incident or call of dead ball and the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the incident or call of dead ball. note specifically however the provisions of law 41.5.8 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter . 18.10 crediting of runs scored unless stated otherwise in any of the laws 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat all runs scored by the batting side shall be credited to the striker for the following an award ofpenalty runs which shall be scored as penalty runs the one run penalty for no ball which shall be scored as no balls . 18.10.2if the ball is not struck by the bat runs shall be scored as penalty runs byes leg byes no ball or wides as the case may be. if byes or leg byes accrue from no ball only the one run penalty for no ball shall be scored as such and the remainder as byes or leg byes as appropriate. 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with all runs scored by the striker all runs scored as no ball all runs scored as wides. 18.11 batter returning to original end 18.11.1 when the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 18.11.1.1 to 18.11.1.8 the not out batter shall return to his her original end. 18.11.1.1 dismissal in the circumstances of law 25.6.4 or 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner . 18.11.1.2 bowled. 18.11.1.3 stumped. 18.11.1.4 hit the ball twice. 18.11.1.5 lbw. 18.11.1.6 hit wicket. 18.11.1.7 caught 18.11.1.8 obstructing the field where the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker being out caught 18.11.2 the batters shall return to their original ends when 18.11.2.1 boundary is scored unless as result of an overthrow or wilful act of fielder see law 19.8 . 18.11.2.2 runs are disallowed for any reason. 18.11.2.3 the batters at the wicket decide to do so under law 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter . 18.12 batter returning to wicket he she has left 18.12.1 when batter is dismissed in any of the ways in 18.12.1.1 to 18.12.1.2 the not out batter shall return to the wicket he she has left but only if the batters had not already crossed at the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. if runs are to be disallowed however the not out batter shall return to his her original end. 18.12.1.1 obstructing the field where the obstruction or distraction does not prevent the striker being out caught. 18.12.1.2 run out other than under law 25.6.4 or 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner . 18.12.2 if while run is in progress the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the dismissal of batter the batters shall return to the wickets they had left but only if they had not already crossed in running when the ball became dead. if however any of the circumstances of 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 apply the batters shall return to their original ends. law 19 boundaries 19.1 determining the boundary of the field of play 19.1.1 before the toss the umpires shall determine the boundary of the field of play which shall be fi for the duration of the match. see law 2.3.1.4 consultation with captains . 19.1.2 the boundary shall be determined such that no part of any sightscreen will at any stage of the match be within the field of play. 19.2 identifying and marking the boundary 19.2.1 wherever practicable the boundary shall be marked by means of continuous white line or by an object in contact with the ground. 19.2.2 if the boundary is marked by means of white line 19.2.2.1 the edge of the line nearest the pitch shall be the boundary. 19.2.2.2 an object such as flag post or board used merely to highlight the position of line marked on the ground must be placed beyond the boundary and is not itself to be regarded as being the boundary. 19.2.3 if the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch. 19.2.4 where there is no white line or object providing continuous marking objects such as flags posts or boards may be used to mark specific points on the boundary. the boundary shall be the imaginary straight line on the ground joining the two nearest marked points. 19.2.5 boundary that cannot be identified as in 19.2.2 19.2.3 or 19.2.4 shall be determined by the umpires before the toss. 19.2.6 an obstacle within the field of play other than as in 19.2.7 shall not be regarded as boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. see law 2.3.1.4 consultation with captains . 19.2.7 person animal or object coming onto the field of play while the ball is in play shall not be regarded as boundary unless the umpires determine otherwise at the time that contact between the ball and such person animal or object is made. the decision shall be made for each separate occurrence. see also law 20.4.2.12 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . 19.3 restoring the boundary if solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason then 19.3.1 the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position. 19.3.2 the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as is practicable if play is taking place this shall be as soon as the ball is dead. 19.3.3 if some part of fence or other marker has come within the field of play that part shall be removed from the field of play as soon as is practicable if play is taking place this shall be as soon as the ball is dead. 19.4 ball grounded beyond the boundary 19.4.1 the ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the boundary the ground beyond the boundary any object that is grounded beyond the boundary. 19.4.2 the ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the boundary if fielder grounded beyond the boundary as in 19.5 touches the ball fielder after catching the ball within the boundary becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact with the ball before completing the catch. 19.5 fielder grounded beyond the boundary 19.5.1 fielder is grounded beyond the boundary if some part of his her person is in contact with any of the following the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the boundary the ground beyond the boundary any object that is in contact with the ground beyond the boundary another fielder who is grounded beyond the boundary if the umpire considers that it was the intention of either fielder that the contact should assist in the fielding of the ball. 19.5.2 fielder who is not in contact with the ground is considered to be grounded beyond the boundary if his her final contact with the ground before his her first contact with the ball after it has been delivered by the bowler was not entirely within the boundary. 19.6 boundary allowances 19.6.1 before the toss the umpires shall determine the runs to be allowed for boundaries with both captains. in deciding the allowances the umpires and captains shall be guided by the prevailing custom of the ground. 19.6.2 unless determined differently under 19.6.1runs shall be allowed for boundaryandruns for boundary 4. see also 19.7. 19.7 runs scored from boundaries 19.7.1 boundarywill be scored if and only if the ball has been struck by the bat and is first grounded beyond the boundary without having been in contact with the ground within the field of play. this shall apply even if the ball has previously touched fielder. 19.7.2 boundarywill be scored when ball that is grounded beyond the boundary whether struck by the bat or not was first grounded within the boundary or has not been struck by the bat. 19.7.3 when boundary is scored the batting side in the circumstances of 19.8 shall be awarded whichever is the greater of 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batters together with the run in progress if they had already crossed at the instant the boundary is scored. 19.7.4 when the runs in 19.7.3.2 the boundary allowance they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of law 18.12.2 batter returning to wicket he she has left . 19.7.5 the scoring of penalty runs by either side is not affected by the scoring of boundary. 19.8 overthrow or wilful act of fielder if the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of fielder the runs scored shall be any runs for penalties awarded to either side and the allowance for the boundary and the runs completed by the batters and the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the throw or wilful act of the fielder. law 18.12.2 batter returning to wicket he she has left shall apply as from the instant of the throw or wilful act of the fielder. law 20 dead ball 20.1 ball is dead 20.1.1 the ball becomes dead when 20.1.1.1 it is finally settled in the hands of the wicket keeper or of the bowler. 20.1.1.2 boundary is scored. see law 19.7 runs scored from boundaries . 20.1.1.3 batter is dismissed. the ball will be deemed to be dead from the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between the bat and person of batter or between items of his her clothing or equipment. 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or equipment of batter or the clothing of an umpire. 20.1.1.6 under either of laws 24.4 player returning without permission or 28.2 fielding the ball there is an offence resulting in an award of penalty runs. the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.1.1.7 there is contravention of law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in law 12.9 conclusion of match . 20.1.2 the ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the bowler end umpire that the fielding side and both batters at the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play. 20.2 ball finally settled whether the ball is finally settled or not is matter for the umpire alone to decide. 20.3 call of over or time neither the call of over see law 17.4 call of over nor the call of time see law 12.2 call of time is to be made until the ball is dead either under 20.1 or under 20.4. 20.4 umpire calling and signalling dead ball 20.4.1 when the ball has become dead under 20.1 the bowler end umpire may call and signal dead ball if it is necessary to inform the players. 20.4.2 where either umpire is required to call and signal dead ball under 20.4.2.1 to 20.4.2.14 the ball will be considered to be dead at the instant of the incident causing the ball to become dead. however where the law specifically provides for the call to be delayed so as not to disadvantage the non offending side under law 25.7 restriction on the striker runner law 34.4 runs permitted from the ball lawfully struck more than once law 41.2.1 unfair actions and law 42.1.2 unacceptable conduct the ball will be considered to be dead at the point of the call. either umpire shall call and signal dead ball when 20.4.2.1 intervening in case of unfair play. 20.4.2.2 possibly serious injury to player or umpire occurs. 20.4.2.3 leaving his her normal position for consultation. 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker wicket before the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball. 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and if the ball is delivered makes no attempt to play it. provided the umpire is satisfied that the striker had adequate reason for not being ready the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement or in any other way while preparing to receive or receiving delivery. this shall apply whether the source of the distraction is within the match or outside it. note also 20.4.2.7. the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of deliberate attempt to distract under either of laws 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker or 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter . the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery. 20.4.2.9 the bowler throws the ball towards the striker end before entering his her delivery stride 20.4.2.10 the ball does not leave the bowler hand for any reason other than an attempt to run out the non striker under law 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early . 20.4.2.11 satisfied that the ball in play cannot be recovered. 20.4.2.12 he she considers that either side has been disadvantaged by person animal or other object within the field of play. however if both umpires consider the ball would have reached the boundary regardless of the intervention the boundary should stand see law 19.2.7 identifying and marking the boundary . 20.4.2.13 the striker attempts to play the ball and no part of his her person whether grounded or raised remains within the pitch as defined in law 6.1 area of pitch . 20.4.2.14 he she is required to do so under any of the laws not included above. 20.5 ball ceases to be dead the ball ceases to be dead that is it comes into play when the bowler starts his her run up or if there is no run up starts his her bowling action. 20.6 dead ball not to be revoked once the ball is dead no revoking of any decision can bring the ball back into play for that delivery. 20.7 dead ball ball counting as one of over 20.7.1 when ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be considered dead then other than as in 20.7.2 20.7.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had an opportunity to play it. 20.7.1.2 unless no ball or wide ball has been called it will be valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to play it in the circumstances of 20.4.2.6 and laws 24.4 player returning without permission 28.2 fielding the ball 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker and 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter . 20.7.2 in 20.4.2.5 the ball will not count in the over only if both conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an adequate reason for not being ready are met. otherwise the delivery will be valid ball. law 21 no ball 21.1 mode of delivery 21.1.1 the umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl right handed or left handed over or round the wicket and shall so inform the striker. it is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of change in his her mode of delivery. in this case the umpire shall call and signal no ball. 21.1.2 underarm bowling shall not be permitted by special agreement before the match. 21.2 fair delivery the arm for delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be thrown. ball is fairly delivered in respect of the arm if once the bowler arm has reached the level of the shoulder in the delivery swing the elbow joint is not straightened partially or completely from that instant until the ball has left the hand. this definition shall not debar bowler from fle or rotating the wrist in the delivery swing. although it is the primary responsibility of the striker end umpire to assess the fairness of delivery in this respect there is nothing in this law to debar the bowler end umpire from calling and signalling no ball if he she considers that the ball has been thrown. 21.3 ball thrown or delivered underarm action by umpires 21.3.1 after the bowler has entered his her delivery stride if in the opinion of either umpire the ball has been thrown or unless permitted by agreement in 21.1.2 delivered underarm that umpire shall call and signal no ball and when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. inform the batters at the wicket of what has occurred. 21.3.2 if either umpire considers that in that innings further delivery by the same bowler is thrown or unless permitted by agreement in 21.1.2 delivered underarm he she shall call and signal no ball and when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall then direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. the over shall if applicable be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the bowler thus suspended shall not bowl again in that innings. inform the batters at the wicket and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. 21.3.3 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 21.4 bowler throwing towards striker end before delivery if the bowler throws the ball towards the striker end before entering the delivery stride it is not no ball and the procedure stated in 21.3 shall not apply. however the umpire shall call and signal dead ball under law 20.4.2.9. 21.5 fair delivery the feet for delivery to be fair in respect of the feet in the delivery stride 21.5.1 the bowler back foot must land within and not touching the return crease on the side of his her stated mode of delivery. 21.5.2 the bowler front foot must land with some part of the foot whether grounded or raised on the same side of the imaginary line joining the two middle stumps as the return crease described in 21.5.1 and behind the popping crease. if the bowler end umpire is not satisfied that all of these three conditions have been met he she shall call and signal no ball. see law 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball . 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball if the ball is delivered and if the non striker is not dismissed under law 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early either umpire shall call and signal no ball if the bowler breaks the wicket at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the stride after the delivery stride. this shall include any clothing or other object that falls from his her person and breaks the wicket. see appendix .12. laws 20.4.2.8 20.4.2.10 umpire calling and signalling dead ball and 21.12 will apply. 21.7 ball bouncing more than once rolling along the ground or pitching off the pitch the umpire shall call and signal no ball if ball which he she considers to have been delivered without having previously touched bat or person of the striker bounces more than once or rolls along the ground before it reaches the popping crease or pitches wholly or partially off the pitch as defined in law 6.1 area of pitch before it reaches the line of the striker wicket. when non turf pitch is being used this will apply to any ball that wholly or partially pitches off the artificial surface. 21.8 ball causing the striker to leave the pitch or ball coming to rest in front of striker wicket if ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the striker wicket or is so far from the pitch that the striker would need to leave the pitch to attempt to play the ball see law 25.8 striker right to play the ball without having previously touched the bat or person of the striker the umpire shall call and signal no ball and immediately call and signal dead ball. 21.9 fielder intercepting delivery if in the circumstances of law 27.3 position of wicket keeper ball delivered by the bowler makes contact with any part of fielder person before it either makes contact with the striker bat or person or it passes the striker wicket the umpire shall call and signal no ball and immediately call and signal dead ball. 21.10 ball bouncing over head height of striker the umpire shall call and signal no ball for any delivery which after pitching passes or would have passed over head height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease. 21.11 call of no ball for infringement of other laws in addition to the instances above no ball is to be called and signalled as required by the following laws. law 27.3 position of wicket keeper law 28.4 limitation of on side fielders law 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch law 41.6 bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries law 41.7 bowling of dangerous and unfair non pitching deliveries law 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball. 21.12 revoking call of no ball an umpire shall revoke the call of no ball if dead ball is called under any of laws 20.4.2.4 20.4.2.5 20.4.2.6 20.4.2.8 or 20.4.2.10 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . 21.13 no ball to override wide call of no ball shall override the call of wide ball at any time. see laws 22.1 judging wide and 22.2 call and signal of wide ball . 21.14 ball not dead the ball does not become dead on the call of no ball. 21.15 penalty for no ball penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of no ball. unless the call is revoked the penalty shall stand even if batter is dismissed. it shall be in addition to any other runs scored any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties. 21.16 runs resulting from no ball how scored the one run penalty shall be scored as no ball and shall be debited against the bowler. if other penalty runs have been awarded to either side these shall be scored as stated in law 41.17 penalty runs . any runs completed by the batters or any boundary allowance shall be credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat otherwise they shall also be scored as byes or leg byes as appropriate. 21.17 no ball not to count no ball shall not count as one of the over. see law 17.3 validity of balls . 21.18 out from no ball when no ball has been called neither batter shall be out under any of the laws 34 hit the ball twice 37 obstructing the field or 38 run out . law 22 wide ball 22.1 judging wide 22.1.1 if the bowler bowls ball not being no ball the umpire shall adjudge it wide if according to the definition in 22.1.2 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing or has stood at any point after the ball came into play for that delivery and which also would have passed wide of the striker standing in normal batting position. 22.1.2 the ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless it is sufficiently within reach for him her to be able to hit it with the bat by means of normal cricket stroke. 22.2 call and signal of wide ball if the umpire adjudges delivery to be wide he she shall call and signal wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker wicket. it shall however be considered to have been wide from the instant that the bowler entered his her delivery stride even though it cannot be called wide until it passes the striker wicket. 22.3 revoking call of wide ball 22.3.1 the umpire shall revoke the call of wide ball if there is any contact between the ball and the striker bat or person before the ball comes into contact with any fielder. 22.3.2 the umpire shall revoke the call of wide ball if delivery is called no ball. see law 21.13 no ball to override wide . 22.4 delivery not wide 22.4.1 the umpire shall not adjudge delivery as being wide if the striker by moving either causes the ball to pass wide of him her as defined in 22.1.2 or brings the ball sufficiently within reach to be able to hit it by means of normal cricket stroke. 22.4.2 the umpire shall not adjudge delivery as being wide if the ball touches the striker bat or person but only as the ball passes the striker. 22.5 ball not dead the ball does not become dead on the call of wide ball. 22.6 penalty for wide penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of wide ball. unless the call is revoked under 22.3 this penalty shall stand even if batter is dismissed and shall be in addition to any other runs scored any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties. 22.7 runs resulting from wide how scored all runs completed by the batters or boundary allowance together with the penalty for the wide shall be scored as wide balls. apart from any award ofpenalty runs all runs resulting from wide shall be debited against the bowler. 22.8 wide not to count wide shall not count as one of the over. see law 17.3 validity of balls . 22.9 out from wide when wide ball has been called neither batter shall be out under any of the laws 35 hit wicket 37 obstructing the field 38 run out or 39 stumped . law 23 bye and leg bye 23.1 byes if the ball delivered by the bowler not being wide passes the striker without touching his her bat or person any runs completed by the batters from that delivery or boundary allowance shall be credited as byes to the batting side. additionally if the delivery is no ball the one run penalty for such delivery shall be incurred. 23.2 leg byes 23.2.1 if ball delivered by the bowler first strikes the person of the striker runs shall be scored only if the umpire is satisfied that the striker has either attempted to play the ball with the bat or tried to avoid being hit by the ball. 23.2.2 if the umpire is satisfied that either of these conditions has been met runs shall be scored as follows. 23.2.2.1 if there is either no subsequent contact with the striker bat or person or only inadvertent contact with the striker bat or person any runs completed by the batters or boundary allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case of subsequent contact with his her bat but otherwise to the batting side as in 23.2.3. 23.2.2.2 if the striker wilfully makes lawful second strike laws 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once and 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once shall apply. 23.2.3 the runs in 23.2.2.1 unless credited to the striker shall be scored as leg byes. additionally if the delivery is no ball the one run penalty for the no ball shall be incurred. 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded if in the circumstance of 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of the conditions therein has been met then leg byes shall not be awarded. if the ball does not become dead for any other reason the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. the umpire shall then disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball to the scorers if applicable award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . law 24 fielder absence substitutes 24.1 substitute fielders 24.1.1 the umpires shall allow substitute fielder 24.1.1.1 if they are satisfied that fielder has been injured or become ill and that this occurred during the match or 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason. in all other circumstances substitute is not allowed. 24.1.2 substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as wicket keeper only with the consent of the umpires. note however law 42.7.1 additional points relating to leveland leveloffences . 24.1.3 nominated player may bowl or field even though substitute has previously acted for him her subject to 24.2 24.3 and law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires . 24.2 fielder absent or leaving the field of play 24.2.1 player going briefly outside the boundary while carrying out any duties as fielder is not absent from the field of play nor for the purposes of this law is he she to be regarded as having left the field of play. 24.2.2 if fielder fails to take the field at the start of play or at any later time or leaves the field during play 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for this absence. 24.2.2.2 he she shall not thereafter come on to the field of play during session of play without the consent of the umpire. see 24.4. the umpire shall give such consent as soon as it is practicable. 24.2.2.3 he she shall not be permitted to bowl until having been back on the field of play for period of time known as penalty time as described in 24.2.3 to 24.2.7 and 24.3. 24.2.3 player unserved penalty time shall be limited to ma of 90 minutes. 24.2.4 if the player leaves the field before having served all of his her penalty time the balance is carried forward as unserved penalty time. 24.2.5 the player shall not bowl until all of his her penalty time has been served. on any occasion of absence the amount of playing time for which the player is off the field shall be added to any penalty time that remains unserved subject to 24.2.3. 24.2.6 if there is an unscheduled break in play the stoppage time shall count as penalty time served provided that 24.2.6.1 the fielder who was on the field of play at the start of the break either takes the field on the resumption of play or his her side is now batting. 24.2.6.2 the fielder who was already off the field at the start of the break notifies an umpire in person as soon as he she is able to participate and either takes the field on the resumption of play or his her side is now batting. stoppage time before an umpire has been so notified shall not count towards unserved penalty time. 24.2.7 any unserved penalty time shall be carried forward into the ne and subsequent days and innings of the match as applicable. 24.2.8 if leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires is committed by fielder the period of time spent off the field of play as result of the suspension shall not be added to any unserved penalty time if he she takes the field at the end of the period of suspension. 24.2.9 if leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires is committed by substitute the following shall apply. 24.2.9.1 the period of time spent off the field as result of the suspension shall not be added to any penalty time that remains unserved if the nominated player takes the field at the end of the period of suspension. however any time spent off the field prior to the offence causing the suspension will remain as unserved penalty time subject to 24.2.3. 24.2.9.2 if the nominated player does not take the field at the end of the period of suspension then the entire period of his her absence will be treated as penalty time up to ma of 90 minutes. 24.3 penalty time not incurred nominated player absence will not incur penalty time if 24.3.1 he she has suffered an blow during the match and as result has justifiably left the field or is unable to take the field. 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires the player has been absent or has left the field for other wholly acceptable reasons which shall not include illness or internal injury. 24.4 player returning without permission if player comes on to the field of play in contravention of 24.2.2 and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play the ball shall immediately become dead. the umpires shall signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. runs completed by the batters shall be scored together with the run in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence. the ball shall not count as one of the over. the umpire shall inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. law 25 batter innings runners 25.1 eligibility to act as batter or runner only nominated player may bat or act as runner and subject to 25.3 and 25.5.2 may do so even though substitute fielder has previously acted for him her. 25.2 commencement of batter innings the innings of the first two batters and that of any new batter on the resumption of play after call of time shall commence at the call of play. at any other time batter innings shall be considered to have commenced when that batter first steps onto the field of play. 25.3 restriction on batter commencing an innings 25.3.1 if member of the batting side has unserved penalty time see law 24.2.7 fielder absent or leaving the field of play that player shall not be permitted to bat or act as runner until that penalty time has been served. however even if the unserved penalty time has not that player may bat after his her side has lostwickets. 25.3.2 member of the batting side penalty time is served during playing time subject to the conditions in 25.3.2.1 and 25.3.2.2. 25.3.2.1 the period of time while serving suspension for leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires does not count as penalty time served. 25.3.2.2 in the event of an unscheduled stoppage the stoppage time after the batter notifies an umpire in person that he she is able to participate shall count as penalty time served. 25.3.3 if any unserved penalty time remains at the end of team innings it shall be carried forward to the ne and subsequent innings of the match if appropriate. 25.4 batter retiring 25.4.1 batter may retire at any time during his her innings when the ball is dead. the umpires before allowing play to proceed shall be informed of the reason for batter retiring. 25.4.2 if batter retires because of illness injury or any other unavoidable cause that batter is entitled to resume his her innings. if for any reason this does not happen that batter is to be recorded as not out . 25.4.3 if batter retires for any reason other than as in 25.4.2 the innings of that batter may be resumed only with the consent of the opposing captain. if for any reason his her innings is not resumed that batter is to be recorded as out . 25.4.4 if after retiring batter resumes his her innings subject to the requirements of 25.4.2 and 25.4.3 it shall be only at the fall of wicket or the retirement of another batter. 25.5 runners 25.5.1 the umpires shall allow runner for batter if they are satisfied 25.5.1.1 that the batter has sustained an injury that affects his her ability to run and that this occurred during the match. 25.5.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason. in all other circumstances runner is not allowed. 25.5.2 runner shall 25.5.2.1 be member of the batting side. 25.5.2.2 if possible have already completed his her innings when this is not possible if circumstances change such that dismissed batter can act as runner then the runner must be changed immediately. 25.5.2.3 be changed only with the consent of the umpires. 25.5.2.4 wear protective equipment equivalent to that worn by the batter for whom he she runs and shall carry bat. 25.5.2.5 not have any unserved penalty time as described in law 24.2.7 fielder absent or leaving the field of play . 25.5.3 batter runner is subject to the laws and will be regarded as batter where there are special provisions for his her role as runner. see law 30.2 which is batter ground . 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner 25.6.1 batter who has runner will suffer the penalty for any infringement of the laws by the runner as if he she the batter had been responsible for the infringement. in particular he she will be out if the runner is out under either of laws 37 obstructing the field or 38 run out . 25.6.2 when batter who has runner is the striker he she remains subject to the laws and will be liable to the penalties that any infringement of them demands. in the case of run out and stumped however special provisions set out in 25.6.3 25.6.4 and 25.6.5 apply to him her as striker who has runner. 25.6.3 when batter who has runner is the striker his her ground is always at the wicket keeper end. 25.6.4 if the striker who has runner is in his her ground and the runner is out of his her ground at the wicket keeper end when the wicket is fairly broken at that end the conditions of law 38 run out shall apply. 25.6.5 if the striker who has runner is out of his her ground and the wicket at the wicket keeper end is fairly broken the striker is liable to be out under laws 38 run out or 39 stumped . if the runner is also out of his her ground at the wicket keeper end then only law 38 run out can apply. 25.6.6 if striker who has runner is dismissed as in 25.6.5 the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end award anyrun penalty that is applicable. 25.6.7 when batter who has runner is not the striker he she 25.6.7.1 remains subject to law 37 obstructing the field but is otherwise out of the match. 25.6.7.2 shall stand where directed by the striker end umpire so as not to interfere with play. 25.6.7.3 will be liable even though out of the match as in 25.6.7.1 to any penalty demanded by the laws should he she commit any act of unfair play. 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 25.7.1 once the ball comes into play the runner for an injured batter who is the striker shall have part of his her person or bat grounded behind the popping crease until the ball reaches the striker or passes the popping crease whichever is the sooner. 25.7.2 if the striker end umpire considers the runner for an injured striker to be in breach of this restriction then if the ball does not become dead for any other reason he she shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. however he she shall delay the call of dead ball to allow the opportunity for catch to be completed. the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 25.8 striker right to play the ball the striker has right to play the ball or to make legitimate second strike after it has been delivered without interference from the wicket keeper or any other fielder see law 27.5 restrictions on actions of wicket keeper and law 27.6 interference with wicket keeper by striker . however the striker may only attempt to play the ball if some of his her bat or person whether grounded or raised remains within the pitch as defined in law 6.1 area of pitch . should no part of the striker bat or person remain within the pitch whilst the striker is playing the ball either umpire shall immediately call and signal dead ball. law 26 practice on the field 26.1 practice on the pitch or the rest of the square 26.1.1 there shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time on any day of the match. 26.1.2 there shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any time on any day of the match with the approval of the umpires. 26.2 practice on the outfield 26.2.1 on any day of the match all forms of practice are permitted on the outfield before the start of play after the close of play and during the lunch and tea intervals or between innings providing the umpires are satisfied that such practice will not cause significant deterioration in the condition of the outfield. 26.2.2 between the call of play and the call of time practice shall be permitted on the outfield providing that all of the following conditions are met only the fielders as defined in appendix .7 participate in such practice. no ball other than the match ball is used for this practice. no bowling practice takes place in the area between the square and the boundary in direction parallel to the match pitch. the umpires are satisfied that it will not contravene either of laws 41.3 the match ball changing its condition or 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side . if there is such contravention the sanctions in law 41 shall be applied. however any warning given shall apply to further instances under both law 26 and law 41 unfair play . 26.3 trial run up bowler is permitted to have trial run up provided the umpire is satisfied that it will not contravene either of laws 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side or 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch . 26.4 penalties for contravention all forms of practice are subject to the provisions of laws 41.3 the match ball changing its condition 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side and 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch . 26.4.1 if there is contravention of any of the provisions of 26.1 or 26.2 the umpire shall warn the player that the practice is not permitted inform the other umpire and as soon as practicable both captains of the reason for this action. 26.4.1.1 if the contravention is by batter at the wicket the umpire shall inform the other batter and each incoming batter that the warning has been issued. the warning shall apply to the team of that player throughout the match. 26.4.2 if during the match there is any further contravention by any player of that team the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing side inform the other umpire the scorers and as soon as practicable both captains and if the contravention is during play the batters at the wicket. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. law 27 the wicket keeper 27.1 protective equipment the wicket keeper is the only fielder permitted to wear gloves and leg guards. if these are worn they are to be regarded as part of his her person for the purposes of law 28.2 fielding the ball . if by the wicket keeper actions and positioning when the ball comes into play it is apparent to the umpires that he she will not be able to carry out the normal duties of wicket keeper he she shall forfeit this right and also the right to be recognised as wicket keeper for the purposes of laws 33.2 fair catch 39 stumped 28.1 protective equipment 28.4 limitation of on side fielders and 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch . 27.2 gloves 27.2.1 if as permitted under 27.1 the wicket keeper wears gloves they shall have no webbing between the fingers joining index finger and thumb where webbing may be inserted as means of support. 27.2.2 if used the webbing shall be single piece of non stretch material which although it may have facing material attached shall have no reinforcements or tucks. 27.2.3 the top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the straight line joining the top of the index finger to the top of the thumb and shall be taut when hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully . see appendix . 27.3 position of wicket keeper 27.3.1 the wicket keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the striker end from the moment the ball comes into play until ball delivered by the bowler touches the bat or person of the striker or passes the wicket at the striker end or the striker attempts run. 27.3.2 in the event of the wicket keeper contravening this law the striker end umpire shall call and signal no ball as soon as applicable after the delivery of the ball. 27.4 movement by wicket keeper 27.4.1 after the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker it is unfair if the wicket keeper significantly alters his her position in relation to the striker wicket for the following 27.4.1.1 movement of few paces forward for slower delivery unless in so doing it brings him her within reach of the wicket. 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in which the ball has been delivered. 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his her actions suggest he she intends to play. however the provisions of law 27.3 shall apply. 27.4.2 in the event of unfair movement by the wicket keeper either umpire shall call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for doing so. the bowler end umpire shall then 27.4.2.1 award the one run penalty for wide or no ball if applicable 27.4.2.2 awardpenalty runs to the batting side 27.4.2.3 inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. 27.4.2.4 inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 27.5 restriction on actions of wicket keeper if in the opinion of either umpire the wicket keeper interferes with the striker right to play the ball and to guard his her wicket law 20.4.2.6 umpire calling and signalling dead ball shall apply. if however either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket keeper was wilful then law 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker shall also apply. 27.6 interference with wicket keeper by striker if in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his her wicket the striker interferes with the wicket keeper he she shall not be out as provided for in law 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught . law 28 the fielder 28.1 protective equipment no fielder other than the wicket keeper shall be permitted to wear gloves or leg guards. in addition protection for the hand or fingers may be worn only with the consent of the umpires. 28.2 fielding the ball 28.2.1 fielder may field the ball with any part of his her person see appendix .12 as in 28.2.1.2. however he she will be deemed to have fielded the ball illegally if while the ball is in play he she wilfully 28.2.1.1 uses anything other than part of his her person to field the ball. 28.2.1.2 his her clothing with his her hands and uses this to field the ball. 28.2.1.3 discards piece of clothing equipment or any other object which subsequently makes contact with the ball. 28.2.2 it is not illegal fielding if the ball in play makes contact with piece of clothing equipment or any other object which has accidentally fallen from the fielder person or been dropped by an umpire. 28.2.3 if fielder illegally fields the ball the ball shall immediately become dead and the penalty for no ball or wide shall stand. any runs completed by the batters shall be credited to the batting side together with the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence. the ball shall not count as one of the over. in addition the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. inform the other umpire and the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 28.3.1 protective helmets when not in use by fielders may not be placed on the ground above the surface behind the wicket keeper and in line with both sets of stumps. 28.3.2 if the ball while in play strikes the protective helmet placed as described in 28.3.1 the ball shall immediately become dead and unless 28.3.3 applies the umpire shall signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side any runs completed by the batters before the ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored together with the run in progress if the batters had already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the protective helmet. 28.3.3 if the ball while in play strikes helmet placed as described in 28.3.1 and the circumstances of law 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded 25.7 restriction on the striker runner or law 34 hit the ball twice apply the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball or wide ball to the scorers if applicable award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under 28.3.2. 28.4 limitation of on side fielders at the instant of the bowler delivery there shall not be more than two fielders other than the wicket keeper behind the popping crease on the on side. fielder will be considered to be behind the popping crease unless the whole of his her person whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line. in the event of infringement of this law by any fielder the striker end umpire shall call and signal no ball. 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch while the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the striker bat or person or has passed the striker bat no fielder other than the bowler may have any part of his her person grounded on or over the pitch. in the event of infringement of this law by any fielder other than the wicket keeper the bowler end umpire shall call and signal no ball as soon as possible after delivery of the ball. note however law 27.3 position of wicket keeper . 28.6 movement by any fielder other than the wicket keeper 28.6.1 any movement by any fielder the wicket keeper after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the striker is unfair for the following 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to the striker wicket. 28.6.1.2 movement by any fielder other than close fielder towards the striker or the striker wicket that does not significantly alter the position of the fielder. 28.6.1.3 movement by any fielder in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his her actions suggest he she intends to play. 28.6.2 in all circumstances law 28.4 limitation of on side fielders shall apply. 28.6.3 in the event of such unfair movement either umpire shall call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for doing so. the bowler end umpire shall then 28.6.3.1 award the one run penalty for wide or no ball if applicable 28.6.3.2 awardpenalty runs to the batting side 28.6.3.3 inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. 28.6.3.4 inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 28.6.4 note also the provisions of law 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker . see also law 27.4 movement by wicket keeper . law 29 the wicket is broken 29.1 the wicket is broken the wicket is broken when at least one bail is completely removed from the top of the stumps or one or more stumps is removed from the ground. 29.2 breaking the wicket fairly 29.2.1 the wicket is broken fairly if bail is completely removed from the top of the stumps or stump is struck out of the ground 29.2.1.1 by the ball 29.2.1.2 by the striker bat if held or by any part of the bat that he she is holding 29.2.1.3 for the purpose of this law only by the striker bat not in hand or by any part of the bat which has become detached 29.2.1.4 by the striker person or by any part of his her clothing or equipment becoming detached from his her person. however any detached equipment shall not include the striker protective helmet or any part thereof as defined in appendix .2.3 29.2.1.5 by fielder with his her hand or arm providing that the ball is held in the hand or hands so used or in the hand of the arm so used. 29.2.1.6 the wicket is also broken fairly if fielder strikes or pulls stump out of the ground as in 29.2.1.5. 29.2.2 the disturbance of bail whether temporary or not shall not constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps but if bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be regarded as complete removal. 29.3 one bail off if one bail is off it shall be sufficient for the purpose of breaking the wicket to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the three stumps out of the ground in any of the ways stated in 29.2. 29.4 remaking wicket if wicket is broken while the ball is in play it shall not be remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. see law 20 dead ball . any fielder may however while the ball is in play replace bail or bails on top of the stumps. put back one or more stumps into the ground where the wicket originally stood. 29.5 dispensing with bails if the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with law 8.5 dispensing with bails it is for the umpire concerned to decide whether or not the wicket has been broken. 29.5.1 after decision to play without bails the wicket has been broken fairly if the umpire concerned is satisfied that the wicket has been struck by the ball by the striker bat person or items of his her clothing or equipment as described in 29.2.1.2 29.2.1.3 or 29.2.1.4 or by fielder in the manner described in 29.2.1.5. 29.5.2 if the wicket has already been broken 29.5.1 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. any fielder may replace stump or stumps in accordance with 29.4 in order to have an opportunity of breaking the wicket fairly. law 30 batter out of his her ground 30.1 when out of his her ground 30.1.1 batter shall be considered to be out of his her ground unless some part of his her person or bat is grounded behind the popping crease at that end. 30.1.2 however batter shall not be considered to be out of his her ground if in running or diving towards his her ground and beyond and having grounded some part of his her person or bat beyond the popping crease there is subsequent loss of contact between the ground and any part of his her person or bat or between the bat and person. 30.2 which is batter ground 30.2.1 if only one batter is within ground it is his her ground and will remain so even if he she is later joined there by the other batter. 30.2.2 if both batters are in the same ground and one of them subsequently leaves it the ground belongs to the batter who remains in it. 30.2.3 if there is no batter in either ground then each ground belongs to whichever batter is nearer to it or if the batters are level to whichever batter was nearer to it immediately prior to their drawing level. 30.2.4 if ground belongs to one batter then unless there is striker who has runner the other ground belongs to the other batter irrespective of his her position. 30.2.5 when batter who has runner is striker his her ground is always at the wicket keeper end. however 30.2.1 30.2.2 30.2.3 and 30.2.4 will still apply but only to the runner and the non striker so that that ground will also belong to either the non striker or the runner as the case may be. 30.3 position of non striker the non striker when standing at the bowler end should be positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the ball is being delivered unless request to do otherwise is granted by the umpire. law 31 appeals 31.1 umpire not to give batter out without an appeal neither umpire shall give batter out even though he she may be out under the laws unless appealed to by fielder. this shall not debar batter who is out under any of the laws from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. note however the provisions of 31.7. 31.2 batter dismissed batter is dismissed if he she is either given out by an umpire on appeal or out under any of the laws and leaves the wicket as in 31.1. 31.3 timing of appeals for an appeal to be valid it must be made before the bowler begins his her run up or if there is no run up his her bowling action to deliver the ne ball and before time has been called. the call of over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of the following over provided time has not been called. see laws 12.2 call of time and 17.2 start of an over . 31.4 appeal that an appeal that covers all ways of being out. 31.5 answering appeals the striker end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of laws 35 hit wicket 39 stumped or 38 run out when this occurs at the wicket keeper end. the bowler end umpire shall answer all other appeals. when an appeal is made each umpire shall answer on any matter that falls within his her jurisdiction. when batter has been given not out either umpire may answer an appeal made in accordance with 31.3 if it is on further matter and is within his her jurisdiction. 31.6 consultation by umpires each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his her own jurisdiction. if an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other umpire may have been in better position to see he she shall consult the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision. if after consultation there is still doubt remaining the decision shall be not out. 31.7 batter leaving the wicket under misapprehension an umpire shall intervene if satisfied that batter not having been given out has left the wicket under misapprehension of being out. the umpire intervening shall call and signal dead ball to prevent any further action by the fielding side and shall recall the batter. batter may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball comes into play for the ne delivery unless it is the final wicket of the innings in which case it should be up to the instant when the umpires leave the field. 31.8 withdrawal of an appeal the captain of the fielding side may withdraw an appeal only after obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the appeal falls. if such consent is given the umpire concerned shall if applicable revoke the decision and recall the batter. the withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the ball comes into play for the ne delivery or if the innings has been completed the instant when the umpires leave the field. law 32 bowled 32.1 out bowled 32.1.1 the striker is out bowled if his her wicket is broken by ball delivered by the bowler not being no ball even if it first touches the striker bat or person. 32.1.2 however the striker shall not be out bowled if before striking the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player or an umpire. the striker will however be subject to laws 37 obstructing the field 38 run out and 39 stumped . 32.2 bowled to take precedence the striker is out bowled if his her wicket is broken as in 32.1 even though decision against him her for any other method of dismissal would be justified. law 33 caught 33.1 out caught the striker is out caught if ball delivered by the bowler not being no ball touches his her bat without having previously been in contact with any fielder and is subsequently held by fielder as fair catch as described in 33.2 and 33.3 before it touches the ground. 33.2 fair catch 33.2.1 catch will be fair only if in every case either the ball at any time or any fielder in contact with the ball is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is completed. note laws 19.4 ball grounded beyond the boundary and 19.5 fielder grounded beyond the boundary . 33.2.2 furthermore catch will be fair if any of the following conditions applies 33.2.2.1 the ball is held in the hand or hands of fielder even if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground or is hugged to the body or lodges in the protective equipment worn by fielder or lodges accidentally in fielder clothing. 33.2.2.2 fielder catches the ball after it has been lawfully struck more than once by the striker but only if it has not been grounded since it was first struck. see law 34 hit the ball twice . 33.2.2.3 fielder catches the ball after it has touched the wicket an umpire another fielder runner or the other batter. 33.2.2.4 fielder catches the ball after it has crossed the boundary in the air provided that the conditions in 33.2.1 are met. 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary that is not designated boundary by the umpires. 33.3 making catch the act of making catch shall start from the time when the ball first comes into contact with fielder person and shall end when fielder obtains complete control over both the ball and his her own movement. 33.4 no runs to be scored if the striker is dismissed caught runs from that delivery completed by the batters before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. the non striker shall return to his her original end. see law 18.11 batter returning to original end . 33.5 caught to take precedence if the criteria of 33.1 are met and the striker is not out bowled then he she is out caught even though decision against either batter for another method of dismissal would be justified. law 34 hit the ball twice 34.1 out hit the ball twice 34.1.1 the striker is out hit the ball twice if while the ball is in play it strikes any part of his her person or is struck by his her bat and before the ball has been touched by fielder the striker wilfully strikes it again with his her bat or person other than hand not holding the bat for the sole purpose of guarding his her wicket. see 34.3 and law 37 obstructing the field . 34.1.2 for the purpose of this law or shall include contact with the person of the striker. 34.1.3this law will apply whether or not no ball is called. 34.2 not out hit the ball twice the striker will not be out under this law if he she 34.2.1 strikes the ball second or subsequent time in order to return the ball to any fielder. note however the provisions of law 37.4 returning the ball to fielder . 34.2.2 wilfully strikes the ball after it has touched fielder. note however the provisions of law 37.1 out obstructing the field . 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once the striker may solely in order to guard his her wicket and before the ball has been touched by fielder lawfully strike the ball second or subsequent time with the bat or with any part of his her person other than hand not holding the bat. the striker may guard his her wicket even if the delivery is no ball. however the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by striking the ball more than once in defence of his her wicket. see law 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught . 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once when the ball is lawfully struck more than once as permitted in 34.3 if the ball does not become dead for any reason the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. however he she shall delay the call of dead ball to allow the opportunity for catch to be completed. the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball to the scorers if applicable. award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 34.5 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. law 35 hit wicket 35.1 out hit wicket 35.1.1the striker is out hit wicket if after the bowler has entered the delivery stride and while the ball is in play his her wicket is broken by either the striker bat or person as described in laws 29.2.1.2 to 29.2.1.4 breaking the wicket fairly in any of the following circumstances 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him her in preparing to receive or in receiving delivery 35.1.1.2 in setting off for the first run immediately after playing or playing at the ball 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball in setting off for the first run providing that in the opinion of the umpire this is immediately after the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making second or further stroke for the purpose of guarding his her wicket within the provisions of law 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once . 35.1.2 if the striker breaks his her wicket in any of the ways described in laws 29.2.1.2 to 29.2.1.4 breaking the wicket fairly before the bowler has entered the delivery stride either umpire shall call and signal dead ball. 35.2 not out hit wicket the striker is not out under this law should his her wicket be broken in any of the ways referred to in 35.1 if any of the following applies it occurs after the striker has completed any action in receiving the delivery other than in 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4. it occurs when the striker is in the act of running other than setting off immediately for the first run. it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid being run out or stumped. it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid throw in at any time. the bowler after entering the delivery stride does not deliver the ball. in this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal dead ball. see law 20.4 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . the delivery is no ball. 35.3 runs scored no runs shall be scored when the striker is dismissed hit wicket other than the one run penalty for wide and any award ofpenalty runs. law 36 leg before wicket 36.1 out lbw the striker is out lbw if all the circumstances set out in 36.1.1 to 36.1.5 apply. 36.1.1 the bowler delivers ball not being no ball 36.1.2 the ball if it is not intercepted full pitch pitches in line between wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker wicket 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his her bat the striker intercepts the ball either full pitch or after pitching with any part of his her person 36.1.4 the point of impact even if above the level of the bails either is between wicket and wicket or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat is between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump. 36.1.5 but for the interception the ball would have hit the wicket. 36.2 interception of the ball 36.2.1 in assessing points in 36.1.3 36.1.4 and 36.1.5 only the first interception is to be considered. 36.2.2 in assessing point 36.1.3 if the ball makes contact with the striker person and bat simultaneously this shall be considered as the ball having first touched the bat. 36.2.3 in assessing point 36.1.5 it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception would have continued after interception irrespective of whether the ball might have pitched subsequently or not. 36.3 off side of wicket the off side of the striker wicket shall be determined by the striker batting position at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. see appendix .13. law 37 obstructing the field 37.1 out obstructing the field 37.1.1 either batter is out obstructing the field if in the circumstances of 37.2 and while the ball is in play he she wilfully attempts to obstruct or distract the fielding side by word or action. see also law 34 hit the ball twice . 37.1.2 the striker is out obstructing the field if in the circumstances of 37.2 in the act of receiving ball delivered by the bowler he she wilfully strikes the ball with hand not holding the bat. this will apply whether it is the first strike or second or subsequent strike. the act of receiving the ball shall both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more than once in defence of his her wicket. 37.1.3 this law will apply whether or not no ball is called. 37.2 not out obstructing the field batter shall not be out obstructing the field if obstruction or distraction is accidental or obstruction is in order to avoid injury or in the case of the striker he she makes second or subsequent strike to guard his her wicket lawfully as in law 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once . however see 37.3. 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught 37.3.1 if the delivery is not no ball the striker is out obstructing the field if wilful obstruction or distraction by either batter prevents the striker being out caught. 37.3.2 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the striker in lawfully guarding his her wicket under the provision of law 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once . 37.3.3 if an obstruction or distraction takes place from no ball then the batter who caused the obstruction or distraction will be out obstructing the field. however the striker is not out if the obstruction of catch occurs while defending his her wicket from no ball with lawful second strike. 37.4 returning the ball to fielder either batter is out obstructing the field if at any time while the ball is in play and without the consent of fielder he she uses the bat or any part of his her person to return the ball to any fielder. 37.5 runs scored when either batter is dismissed obstructing the field 37.5.1 unless the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker being out caught any runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be scored together with any one run penalty for no ball or wide or any other award ofpenalty runs to either side. see laws 18.6 runs awarded for penalties and 18.8 runs scored when batter is dismissed . 37.5.2 if the obstruction or distraction prevents the striker being out caught any runs completed by the batters shall not be scored but any award ofpenalty runs to either side shall stand. law 18.11 batter returning to original end will apply. 37.6 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. law 38 run out 38.1 out run out either batter is out run out as in 38.2 if at any time while the ball is in play he she is out of his her ground and his her wicket is fairly broken by either the action of fielder or the ball rebounding off fielder person even though no ball has been called in the circumstances of 38.2.2.2 and whether or not run is being attempted. 38.2 batter not out run out 38.2.1 batter is not out run out in the circumstances of 38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2. 38.2.1.1 he she has been within his her ground and has subsequently left it to avoid injury when the wicket is fairly broken. note also the provisions of law 30.1.2 when out of his her ground . 38.2.1.2 the ball delivered by the bowler has not made contact with fielder before the wicket is fairly broken. 38.2.2 the striker is not out run out in any of the circumstances in 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2. 38.2.2.1 he she is out stumped. see laws 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner and 39.1.2 out stumped . 38.2.2.2 no ball has been called and he she is out of his her ground not attempting run and the wicket is fairly broken by the wicket keeper without the intervention of another fielder. however if the striker has runner and the runner is out of his her ground then only 38.1 applies. 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early 38.3.1 if the non striker is out of his her ground at any time from the moment the ball comes into play until the instant when the bowler would normally have been to release the ball the non striker is liable to be run out. in these circumstances the non striker will be out run out if he she is out of his her ground when his her wicket is broken by the bowler throwing the ball at the wicket or by the bowler hand holding the ball whether or not the ball is subsequently delivered. 38.3.1.1 the instant when the bowler would normally have been to release the ball is defined as the moment the bowler arm reaches the highest point of his her normal bowling action in the delivery swing. 38.3.1.2 even if the non striker had left his her ground before the instant at which the bowler would normally have been to release the ball once the bowler has reached that point it is no longer possible for the bowler to run out the non striker under this law. 38.3.2 if the ball is not delivered if there is an appeal the umpire shall make his her decision on the run out. if there is no appeal or if the decision is not out he she shall call and signal dead ball as soon as possible. the ball shall not count as one in the over. 38.3.3 if the ball is delivered and there is an appeal the umpire shall make his her decision on the run out. if the non striker is not dismissed the ball remains in play and law 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball shall apply. if the non striker is dismissed the ball shall not count as one in the over. 38.4 which batter is out the batter out in the circumstances of 38.1 is the one whose ground is at the end where the wicket is fairly broken. see laws 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner and 30.2 which is batter ground . 38.5 runs scored if either batter is dismissed run out the run in progress when the wicket is broken shall not be scored but any runs completed by the batters shall stand together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. see laws 18.6 runs awarded for penalties and 18.8 runs scored when batter is dismissed . if however striker who has runner is himself herself dismissed run out and runs are completed by the runner and the other batter before the wicket is broken all runs to the batting side from that delivery shall be disallowed. the one run penalty for no ball shall stand andrun penalties shall be allowed. the umpire shall return the non striker to his her original end. see law 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner . 38.6 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. law 39 stumped 39.1 out stumped 39.1.1 the striker is out stumped as in 39.3 if ball which is delivered is not called no ball and he she is out of his her ground other than as in 39.3.1 and he she has not attempted run when his her wicket is fairly broken by the wicket keeper without the intervention of another fielder. note however laws 25.6.2 and 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner and 27.3 position of wicket keeper . 39.1.2the striker is out stumped if all the conditions of 39.1.1 are satisfied even though decision of run out would be justified. 39.2 ball rebounding from wicket keeper person if the wicket is broken by the ball it shall be regarded as having been broken by the wicket keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps from any part of the wicket keeper person or equipment or has been kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket keeper. 39.3 not out stumped 39.3.1 the striker will not be out stumped if after having received the delivery he she has left his her ground in order to avoid injury. 39.3.2 if the striker is not out stumped he she may in the circumstances of law 38.2.2.2 batter not out run out be out run out if the conditions of law 38.1 out run out apply. 39.4 runs scored when striker is dismissed stumped from wide ball the one run penalty shall stand. note laws 12.9 conclusion of match 16.6 winning hit or and 22.2 call and signal of wide ball mean that if the penalty for wide concludes the match then stumping is not possible but the one run penalty for the wide remains. law 40 timed out 40.1 out timed out 40.1.1 after the fall of wicket or the retirement of batter the incoming batter must unless time has been called be ready to receive the ball or for the other batter to be ready to receive the ne ball withinminutes of the dismissal or retirement. if this requirement is not met the incoming batter will be out timed out. 40.1.2 in the event of an delay in which no batter comes to the wicket the umpires shall adopt the procedure of law 16.3 umpires awarding match . for the purposes of that law the start of the action shall be taken as the of theminutes referred to above. 40.2 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. law 41 unfair play 41.1 fair and unfair play responsibility of captains the captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within the spirit of cricket as described in the preamble the spirit of cricket as well as within the laws. 41.2 unfair actions 41.2.1 the umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. if an umpire considers that any action by player not covered in the laws is unfair he she shall call and signal dead ball if appropriate as soon as it becomes clear that the call will not disadvantage the non offending side and report the matter to the other umpire. 41.2.1.1 if this is first offence by that side the bowler end umpire shall then summon the offending player captain and issue first and final warning which shall apply to all members of the team for the remainder of the match. warn the offending player captain that any further such offence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 41.2.1.2 if this is second or subsequent offence by that side the bowler end umpire shall then summon the offending player captain and inform him her that there has been further such offence. awardpenalty runs to the opposing side 41.2.1.3 the umpires together shall report the incident as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.3 the match ball changing its condition 41.3.1 the umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the ball. in addition they shall immediately inspect the ball if they suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the ball as permitted in 41.3.2. 41.3.2 it is an offence for any player to take any action which changes the condition of the ball. in carrying out his her normal duties batter is not allowed to wilfully damage the ball. see also law 5.5 damage to the ball . fielder may however 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on his her clothing provided that no artificial substance is used that the only natural substance used is sweat and that such polishing wastes no time. 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of an umpire. 41.3.2.3 dry wet ball on piece of cloth that has been approved by the umpires. 41.3.3 the umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not comply with the conditions in 41.3.2. 41.3.4 if the umpires consider that the condition of the ball has been unfairly changed by member or members of either side they shall ask the captain of the opposing side if he she would like the ball to be replaced. if necessary in the case of the batting side the batters at the wicket may deputise for their captain. 41.3.4.1 if replacement ball is requested the umpires shall select and bring into use immediately ball which shall have wear comparable to that of the previous ball immediately prior to the contravention. 41.3.4.2 regardless of whether replacement ball has been chosen to be used the bowler end umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing side. if appropriate inform the batters at the wicket and the captain of the fielding side that the ball has been changed and the reason for their action. inform the captain of the batting side as soon as practicable of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.3.5 if the umpires agree that in the match there has been any further instance by that team of unfairly changing the condition of the ball they shall 41.3.5.1 repeat the procedure in 41.3.4.1 and 41.3.4.2. if the further offence is committed by the fielding side additionally the bowler end umpire shall 41.3.5.2 direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend immediately from bowling the bowler who delivered the preceding ball he she shall not be allowed to bowl again in the match. inform the batters at the wicket and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for the action. if necessary the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker 41.4.1 it is unfair for any fielder deliberately to attempt to distract the striker while he she is preparing to receive or receiving delivery. 41.4.2 if either umpire considers that any action by fielder is such an attempt he she shall immediately call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. inform the captain of the fielding side the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for the action. neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery and the ball shall not count as one of the over. however if either umpire had reason to call and signal no ball he she shall do so regardless of the attempt to distract and this call shall stand. together with the other umpire report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter 41.5.1 in addition to 41.4 it is unfair for any fielder wilfully to attempt by word or action to distract deceive or obstruct either batter after the striker has received the ball. 41.5.2 it is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any distraction deception or obstruction is wilful or not. 41.5.3 if either umpire considers that fielder has caused or attempted to cause such distraction deception or obstruction he she shall immediately call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. 41.5.4 neither batter shall be dismissed from that delivery. 41.5.5 if an obstruction involves physical contact the umpires together shall decide whether or not an offence under law 42 players conduct has been committed. 41.5.5.1 if an offence under law 42 players conduct has been committed they shall apply the relevant procedures in law 42 and shall also apply each of 41.5.7 to 41.5.9. 41.5.5.2 if they consider that there has been no offence under law 42 players conduct they shall apply each of 41.5.6 to 41.5.10. 41.5.6 the bowler end umpire shall signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable awardpenalty runs to the batting side inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the batting side. 41.5.7 the ball shall not count as one of the over. 41.5.8 any runs completed by the batters before the offence shall be scored together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. additionally the run in progress shall be scored whether or not the batters had already crossed at the instant of the offence. 41.5.9 the batters at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face the ne delivery. 41.5.10 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.6 bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries 41.6.1 the bowling of short pitched deliveries is dangerous if the bowler end umpire considers that taking into consideration the skill of the striker by their speed length height and direction they are likely to inflict physical injury on him her. the fact that the striker is wearing protective equipment shall be disregarded. 41.6.2 the bowler end umpire may consider that the bowling of short pitched deliveries although not dangerous under 41.6.1 is unfair if they repeatedly pass above head height of the striker standing upright at the crease. see also law 21.10 ball bouncing over head height of striker . 41.6.3 as soon as the umpire decides that the bowling of short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.6.1 or unfair under 41.6.2 he she shall call and signal no ball. when the ball is dead the umpire shall caution the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning and inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side and the batters of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. 41.6.4 should there be any further such delivery by the same bowler in that innings the umpire shall call and signal no ball when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire for the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the umpire shall inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.6.5 the warning sequence in 41.6.3 and 41.6.4 is independent of the warning and action sequence in 41.7. 41.7 bowling of dangerous and unfair non pitching deliveries 41.7.1 any delivery which passes or would have passed without pitching above waist height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease is unfair. whenever such delivery is bowled the umpire shall call and signal no ball. 41.7.2 the bowling of delivery as defined in 41.7.1 is also dangerous if the bowler end umpire considers that there is risk of injury to the striker. in making that judgement the umpire shall disregard any protective equipment worn by the striker be mindful of the speed height and direction of the delivery the skill of the striker the repeated nature of such deliveries. 41.7.3 if the umpire considers non pitching delivery or series of non pitching deliveries to be dangerous under 41.7.2 when the ball is dead the umpire shall repeat the no ball signal to the scorers and then caution the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning. the umpire shall also inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side and the batters of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. 41.7.4 should there be any further dangerous such delivery by the same bowler in that innings the umpire shall call and signal no ball when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire for the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. additionally the umpire shall inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.7.5 the warning and action sequences in 41.7.3 and 41.7.4 are independent of those in 41.6. 41.7.6 if the umpire considers that bowler deliberately bowled non pitching delivery deemed to be unfair as defined in 41.7.1 then the caution and warning in 41.7.3 shall be dispensed with. the umpire shall immediately call and signal no ball. when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform the other umpire for the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball if the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered deliberate front foot no ball he she shall immediately call and signal no ball. when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire for the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side 41.9.1 it is unfair for any fielder to waste time. 41.9.2 if either umpire considers that the progress of an over is unnecessarily slow or time is being wasted in any other way by the captain of the fielding side or by any other fielder at the first instance the umpire concerned shall if the ball is in play call and signal dead ball. inform the other umpire of what has occurred. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the captain of the fielding side indicating that this is first and final warning. inform the batters of what has occurred. 41.9.3 if either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time in that innings by any fielder the umpire concerned shall if the ball is in play call and signal dead ball. inform the other umpire of what has occurred. the bowler end umpire shall then either if the waste of time is not during an over awardpenalty runs to the batting side and inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action or if the waste of time is during the course of an over direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. additionally the umpire shall inform the batters and as soon as is practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.10 batter wasting time 41.10.1 it is unfair for batter to waste time. in normal circumstances the striker should always be ready to take strike when the bowler is ready to start his her run up. 41.10.2 should either batter waste time by failing to meet this requirement or in any other way the following procedure shall be adopted. at the first instance either before the bowler starts his her run up or when the ball becomes dead as appropriate the umpire shall warn both batters and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform each incoming batter. inform the other umpire of what has occurred. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.10.3 if there is any further time wasting by any batter in that innings the umpire shall at the appropriate time while the ball is dead awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. inform the other batter the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.11 the protected area the protected area is defined as that area of the pitch contained within rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the popping creases andft 1.52 in front of each and on the sides by imaginary lines one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps each parallel to it andft 30.48 cm from it. 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch 41.12.1 it is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. fielder will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers that his her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause. 41.12.2 if fielder causes deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch other than as in 41.13.1 at the first instance the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire. the bowler end umpire shall then caution the captain of the fielding side and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. inform the batters of what has occurred. 41.12.3 if in that innings there is any further instance of deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch by any fielder the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire. the bowler end umpire shall then signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. awardpenalty runs to the batting side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable. inform the fielding captain of the reason for this action. inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.13 bowler running on protected area 41.13.1 it is unfair for bowler to enter the protected area in his her follow through without reasonable cause whether or not the ball is delivered. 41.13.2 if bowler contravenes this law at the first instance and when the ball is dead the umpire shall caution the bowler and inform the other umpire of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. inform the captain of the fielding side and the batters of what has occurred. 41.13.3 if in that innings the same bowler again contravenes this law the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating that this is final warning. this warning shall also apply throughout the innings. 41.13.4 if in that innings the same bowler contravenes this law third time when the ball is dead the umpire shall direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. inform the batters and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.14 batter damaging the pitch 41.14.1 it is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. if the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing at the ball he she must move from it immediately thereafter. batter will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers that his her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause. 41.14.2 if either batter causes deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch other than as in 41.15 at the first instance the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then warn both batters that the practice is unfair and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform each incoming batter. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.14.3 if there is any further instance of deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch by any batter in that innings the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.15 striker in protected area 41.15.1 the striker shall not adopt batting position in the protected area or so close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable. the striker may make mark on the pitch for the purpose of indicating his her batting position provided that no mark is unreasonably close to the protected area. 41.15.2 if there is breach of any of the conditions in 41.15.1 by the striker the umpire seeing the contravention shall if the bowler has not entered his her delivery stride immediately call and signal dead ball otherwise he she shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the striker that the practice is unfair and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform the non striker and each incoming batter. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.15.3 if there is any further breach of any of the conditions in 41.15.1 by any batter in that innings the umpire seeing the contravention shall if the bowler has not entered his her delivery stride immediately call and signal dead ball otherwise he she shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batter to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team 41.16 batters stealing run it is unfair for the batters to attempt to steal run during the bowler run up. unless the bowler attempts to run out the non striker see law 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the batters cross in such an attempt. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. the bowler end umpire shall then return the batters to their original ends and disallow the attempted run. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable. inform the batters the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.17 penalty runs 41.17.1 when penalty runs are awarded to either side when the ball is dead the umpire shall signal the penalty runs to the scorers. see law 2.13 signals . 41.17.2 penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where the laws require the award even if result has already been achieved. see law 16.6 winning hit or . note however that the restrictions on awarding penalty runs in laws 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side and 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once will apply. 41.17.3 whenpenalty runs are awarded to the batting side they shall be scored as penalty and shall be in addition to any other penalties. they are awarded when the ball is dead and shall not be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery and shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries. the batters shall not change ends solely by reason of therun penalty. 41.17.4 whenpenalty runs are awarded to the fielding side they shall be added as penalty to that side total of runs in its most recently completed innings. if the fielding side has not completed an innings thepenalty runs shall be added to the score in its ne innings. law 42 players conduct 42.1 unacceptable conduct 42.1.1 the umpires shall act upon any unacceptable conduct. four levels of offence and the corresponding actions by the umpires are identified as levellevelleveland leveloffences in 42.2 to 42.5. 42.1.2 if either umpire considers that the conduct of player at any time during the match is unacceptable the umpire concerned shall call and signal dead ball. this call may be delayed until the umpire is satisfied that it will not disadvantage the non offending side. 42.1.3 the umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire and together they shall decide whether misconduct has occurred. if so they shall determine into which of the levels the conduct falls as set out in 42.2 to 42.5 below and then apply the related sanctions. 42.1.4 any call of no ball or wide before the offence shall stand. 42.1.5 for each leveltoif the offence is by batter the umpires shall summon the offending player captain to the field. solely for the purpose of this law the batters at the wicket may not deputise for their captain. 42.1.6 for each leveltoplaying time shall be counted as lost from the call of time to the call of play intervals law 11 and suspensions of play law 2.8 . the time for close of play on that day shall be by this length of time. if applicable no overs shall be deducted during the last hour of the match solely on account of this time. 42.2 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.2.1 any of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence wilfully mistreating any part of the cricket ground equipment or implements used in the match showing dissent at an umpire decision by word or action using language that in the circumstances is obscene offensive or insulting making an obscene gesture appealing advancing towards an umpire in an aggressive manner when appealing any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence. 42.2.2 if such an offence is committed 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.6 shall be implemented as appropriate according to whether or not it is the first offence at any level. 42.2.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.2.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.2.2.3 if the leveloffence is the first offence at any level by that team the umpire shall 42.2.2.3.1 issue first and final warning which shall apply to all members of the team for the remainder of the match. 42.2.2.3.2 warn the offending player captain that any further leveloffence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.2.2.4 if the leveloffence follows an offence at any level by that team the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.2.2.5 as soon as practicable the umpire shall call play. 42.2.2.6 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.3 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.3.1 any of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence showing serious dissent at an umpire decision by word or action making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with another player throwing the ball at player umpire or another person in an inappropriate and dangerous manner using language or gesture to another player umpire team official or spectator that in the circumstances is obscene or of seriously insulting nature or any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence. 42.3.2 if such an offence is committed 42.3.2.1 to 42.3.2.6 shall be implemented. 42.3.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.3.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.3.2.3 the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.3.2.4 the umpire shall warn the offending player captain that any future leveloffence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.3.2.5 as soon as practicable the umpire shall call play. 42.3.2.6 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.4.1 either of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence intimidating an umpire by language or gesture threatening to assault player or any other person an umpire. see 42.5.1. 42.4.2 if such an offence is committed 42.4.2.1 to 42.4.2.5 shall be implemented. 42.4.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.4.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.4.2.3 the umpires shall direct the captain to remove the offending player immediately from the field of play for period in accordance with the following 42.4.2.3.1 in match where the innings are not limited to number of overs the player shall be suspended from the field of play for 10 overs. any balls remaining in the over in progress at the time of suspension shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.3.2 in match where the innings are limited to number of overs the player shall be suspended for one fifth of the number of overs allocated to the current innings at its commencement. if in calculating the length of the suspension part over results it shall be considered as whole over. any balls remaining in the over in progress at the time of suspension shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.3.3 if the offending player is fielder no substitute shall be allowed for him her. the offending player may return to the field of play after serving the period of suspension and may bowl immediately. 42.4.2.3.4 if bowler is suspended mid over then that over must be completed by different bowler who shall not have bowled the previous over nor shall he she bowl the ne over. 42.4.2.3.5 if the offending player is member of the batting side who has not been dismissed he she may bat or return to bat after having served the suspension only at the fall of wicket. if the offending player is suspended while batting he she shall be replaced by another member of his her team. if no batter is available to bat during batter suspension the innings is completed. if the offending player was suspended while batting and does not continue his her innings for whatever reason he she is to be recorded as not out . 42.4.2.3.6 if the offending player is dismissed member of the batting side the period of suspension will not commence until the start of the ne innings. furthermore in these circumstances the offending player may not act as runner during the innings when he she was suspended. 42.4.2.3.7 warn the offending player captain that any future leveloffence shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.4.2.3.8 any overs remaining to be served from suspension shall be carried forward to the ne and subsequent innings of the match. part over at the end of the innings shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.4 as soon as practicable the umpire shall signal the leveloffence to the scorers awardpenalty runs to the opposing team call play. 42.4.2.5 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.5 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.5.1 any of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence threatening to assault an umpire making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with an umpire physically assaulting player or any other person committing any other act of violence. 42.5.2 if such an offence is committed 42.5.2.1 to 42.5.2.5 shall be implemented. 42.5.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.5.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.5.2.3 the umpires shall direct the captain to remove the offending player immediately from the field of play for the remainder of the match and shall apply the following 42.5.2.3.1 if the offending player is fielder no substitute shall be allowed for him her. he she is to be recorded as out at the commencement of any subsequent innings in which his her team is the batting side. 42.5.2.3.2 if bowler is suspended mid over then that over must be completed by different bowler who shall not have bowled the previous over nor shall be permitted to bowl the ne over. 42.5.2.3.3 if the offending player is batter he she is to be recorded as out in the current innings unless he she has been dismissed under any of laws 32 to 39 and at the commencement of any subsequent innings in which his her team is the batting side. if no further batter is available to bat the innings is completed. 42.5.2.3.4 warn the offending player captain that any future leveloffence shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.5.2.4 as soon as practicable the umpire shall signal the leveloffence to the scorers awardpenalty runs to the opposing team call play. 42.5.2.5 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.6 captain refusing to remove player from the field 42.6.1 if captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.4.2.3 or 42.5.2.3 the umpires shall invoke law 16.3 umpires awarding match . 42.6.2 if both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.4.2.3 or 42.5.2.3 in respect of the same incident the umpires shall instruct the players to leave the field. the match is not concluded as in law 12.9 conclusion of match and there shall be no result under law 16 the result . 42.7 additional points relating to leveland leveloffences 42.7.1 if player while acting as wicket keeper commits levelor leveloffence law 24.1.2 substitute fielders shall not apply meaning that only nominated player may act as wicket keeper even if another fielder becomes injured or ill and is replaced by substitute. 42.7.2 nominated player who has substitute or has runner will suffer penalty for any levelor leveloffence committed by that substitute or by that runner. 42.7.2.1 when the offence is committed by substitute the nominated player and substitute will each suffer the penalty defined in 42.4.2.3 or in 42.5.2.3 as appropriate. only the substitute and captain will be reported as in 42.4.2.5 or 42.5.2.5. 42.7.2.2 when the offence is committed by runner the batter who has the runner and the runner will each suffer the penalty defined in 42.4.2.3 or in 42.5.2.3 as appropriate. the penalty for leveloffence see 42.5.2.3 will apply to the runner for the remainder of the match but in only the current innings to the batter for whom the runner acted. only the runner and captain will be reported as in 42.4.2.5 or 42.5.2.5. appendix definitions and of words or phrases not defined in the te .1 the match .1.1 the game is used in these laws as general term meaning the game of cricket. .1.2 match is single encounter or contest between two sides or teams played under the laws of cricket. .1.3 the toss is the toss for choice of innings. .1.4 before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is to start or in the case of one day match on the day the match is due to take place. .1.5 before the match is at any time before the toss not restricted to the day on which the toss is to take place. .1.6 during the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of the match whether play is in progress or not. .1.7 playing time is any time between the call of play and the call of time. see laws 12.1 call of play and 12.2 call of time . .1.8 conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time on any day of the match. .2 implements and equipment .2.1 implements used in the match are the bat the ball the stumps and bails. .2.2 protective equipment is any visible item of apparel worn for protection against blows. for batter items permitted are protective helmet leg guards batting pads batting gloves and if visible forearm guards. for fielder only protective helmet is permitted in the case of wicket keeper for whom wicket keeping pads and gloves are also permitted. .2.3 protective helmet is headwear made of hard material and designed to protect the head neck and or the face. for the purposes of interpreting these laws of cricket such description will include faceguards grilles and neck guards. .2.4 equipment batter equipment is his her bat as defined above together with any protective equipment he she is wearing. fielder equipment is any protective equipment that he she is wearing. .2.5 the bat the following are to be considered as part of the bat the whole of the bat itself. the whole of glove or gloves worn on the hand or hands holding the bat. the hand or hands holding the bat if the batter is not wearing glove on that hand or on those hands. .2.6 held in batter hand contact between batter hand or glove worn on his her hand and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being held in that hand. .3 the playing area .3.1 the field of play is the area contained within the boundary. .3.2 the square is specially prepared area of the field of play within which the match pitch is situated. .3.3 the outfield is that part of the field of play between the square and the boundary. .4 positioning .4.1 behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the field of play including any other marking objects and persons therein that is on that side of the popping crease that does not include the creases at the opposite end of the pitch. behind in relation to any other marking object or person follows the same principle. see the diagram in .13. .4.2 in front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the field of play including any other marking objects and persons therein that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the creases at the opposite end of the pitch. in front of in relation to any other marking object or person follows the same principle. see the diagram in .13. .4.3 the striker end is the place where the striker stands to receive delivery from the bowler only insofar as it identifies independently of where the striker may subsequently move one end of the pitch. .4.4 the bowler end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. it is the other end of the pitch from the striker end and identifies that end of the pitch that is not the striker end as described in .4.3. .4.5 the wicket keeper end is the same as the striker end as described in .4.3. .4.6 in front of the line of the striker wicket is in the area of the field of play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the striker end this line to be considered in both directions to the boundary. see .4.2. .4.7 behind the wicket is in the area of the field of play behind the imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end this line to be considered in both directions to the boundary. see .4.1. .4.8 behind the wicket keeper is behind the wicket at the striker end as defined above but in line with both sets of stumps and further from the stumps than the wicket keeper. .4.9 off side on side see diagram in .13 .4.10 inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. .5 umpires .5.1 umpire where the description the umpire is used on its own it always means bowler end umpire though this full description is sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. similarly the umpires always means both umpires. an umpire and umpires are generalised terms. otherwise fuller description indicates which one of the umpires is specifically intended. each umpire will be bowler end umpire and striker end umpire in alternate overs. .5.2 bowler end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler end see .4.4 for the current delivery. .5.3 striker end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker end see .4.3 to one side of the pitch or the other depending on his her choice for the current delivery. .5.4 umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to make jointly independently of the players. .6 batters .6.1 batting side is the side currently batting whether or not play is in progress. .6.2 member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the captain of the batting side or any authorised replacement for such nominated player. .6.3 the striker is the batter who receives the ball delivered by the bowler. .6.4 the non striker is the batter whose ground is at the bowler end when the ball is delivered. .6.5 batter ground at each end of the pitch the whole area of the field of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for batter. .6.6 original end is the end where batter was when the ball came into play for that delivery. .6.7 wicket he she has left is the wicket at the end where batter was at the start of the run in progress. .6.8 batting position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to receive ball delivered by the bowler. normal batting position is one from which striker could be reasonably to defend his her wicket. .6.9 for the purposes of these laws waist height is defined as the point at which the top of the batter trousers would conventionally be when he she is standing upright at the popping crease. .7 fielders .7.1 fielding side is the side currently fielding whether or not play is in progress. .7.2 member of the fielding side is one of the players nominated by the captain of the fielding side or any authorised replacement or substitute for such nominated player. .7.3 fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the fielding side on the field of play. this definition includes not only both the bowler and the wicket keeper but also nominated players who are legitimately on the field of play together with players legitimately acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. it any nominated player who is absent from the field of play or who has been absent from the field of play and who has not yet obtained the umpire permission to return. player going briefly outside the boundary in the course of discharging his her duties as fielder is not absent from the field of play nor for the purposes of law 24.2 fielder absent or leaving the field of play is he she to be regarded as having left the field of play. .8 substitutes replacements and runners .8.1 substitute is player who takes the place of fielder on the field of play but does not replace the player for whom he she substitutes on that side list of nominated players. substitute activities are limited to fielding. .8.2 replacement is player who takes the place of nominated player and who thereby becomes nominated player. replacement activities on the field of play are no more limited than those of any other nominated player. .8.3 runner is nominated player who runs for another nominated player of his her own side who is batting and is unable to run. .9 bowlers .9.1 over the wicket round the wicket if as the bowler runs up between the wicket and the return crease the wicket is on the same side as his her bowling arm he she is bowling over the wicket. if the return crease is on the same side as his her bowling arm he she is bowling round the wicket. .9.2 delivery swing is the motion of the bowler arm during which he she normally releases the ball for delivery. .9.3 delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made whether the ball is released or not. it starts when the bowler back foot lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same stride. the stride after the delivery stride is completed when the ne foot lands . . when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again. .10 the ball .10.1 the ball is struck strikes the ball unless specifically defined otherwise mean ball is struck by the bat the ball with the bat . .10.2 full pitch describes ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or passes the striker without having touched the ground. sometimes described as non pitching. .11 runs .11.1 run to be disallowed is one that in law should not have been taken. it is not only to be cancelled but the batters are to be returned to their original ends. .11.2 run not to be scored is one that is not illegal but is not recognised as properly run. it is not run that has been made so the question of cancellation does not arise. the loss of the run so attempted is not disallowance and the batters will not be returned to their original ends on that account. .12 the person .12.1 person player person is his her physical person flesh and blood together with any clothing or legitimate protective equipment that he she is wearing in the case of batter his her bat. hand whether gloved or not that is not holding the bat is part of the batter person. no item of clothing or equipment is part of the player person unless it is attached to him her. for batter glove being held but not worn is part of his her person. for fielder an item of clothing or equipment he she is holding in his her hand or hands is not part of his her person. .12.2 clothing anything that player is wearing including such items as spectacles or jewellery that is not classed as protective equipment is classed as clothing even though he she may be wearing some items of apparel which are not visible for protection. bat being carried by batter does not come within this definition of clothing. .12.3 hand for batter or wicket keeper shall include both the hand itself and the whole of glove worn on the hand. .13 off side on side in front of behind the popping crease appendix the bat law.1. general guidance .1.1. measurements all provisions in sections .2 to .6 below are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the law and this appendix. .1.2 adhesives throughout adhesives are permitted only where essential and only in minimal quantity. .1.3 categories of bat the specifications given below relate to type and bats unless specified otherwise. .2. specifications for the handle .2.1 one end of the handle is inserted into recess in the blade as means of joining the handle and the blade. this lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and the handle together. it is not part of the blade but solely in interpreting .3 and .4 below references to the blade shall be considered to also to this lower portion of the handle where relevant. .2.2. the handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine along the upper portion. providing law 5.5 is not contravened the upper portion may be covered with materials solely to provide surface suitable for gripping. such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat in relation to law 5.6. the bottom of this grip should not below the point defined in .2.4 below. twine binding and the covering grip may beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle to cover part of the shoulders of the bat as defined in .3.1. no material may be placed on or inserted into the lower portion of the handle other than as permitted above together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used solely for fi these items or for fi the handle to the blade. .2.3 materials in handle as proportion of the total volume of the handle materials other than cane wood or twine are restricted to one tenth for types and and one fifth for type and type . such materials must not project more than 3.25 in 8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle .2.4 binding and covering of handle the permitted continuation beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle is restricted to ma measured along the length of the handle of 2.5 in 6.35 cm in for the twine binding 2.75 in 6.99 cm for the covering grip. .3 specifications for the blade .3.1. the blade has face back toe sides and shoulders .3.1.1 the face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be flat or have slight convex curve resulting from traditional pressing techniques. the back is the opposite surface. .3.1.2 the shoulders sides and toe are the remaining surfaces separating the face and the back. .3.1.3. the shoulders one on each side of the handle are along that portion of the blade between the first entry point of the handle and the point at which the blade first reaches its full width. .3.1.4. the toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as pair. .3.1.5. the sides one each side of the blade are along the rest of the blade between the toe and the shoulders. .3.2. no material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other than as permitted in .2.4 .3.3 and law 5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used solely for fi these items or for fi the handle to the blade. .3.3 covering the blade type and type bats shall have no covering on the blade as permitted in law 5.4. type and type bats may have cloth covering on the blade. this may be treated as specified in .4 below. the cloth covering permitted for type and bats shall be of thickness not 0.012 in 0.3 mm before treatment as in .4.1. any materials referred to above in law 5.4 and .4 below are to be considered as part of the bat which must still pass through the gauge as defined in .8. .4 protection and repair .4.1. the surface of the blade may be treated with non solid materials to improve resistance to moisture penetration and or mask natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. save for the purpose of giving homogeneous appearance by masking natural blemishes such treatment shall not materially alter the colour of the blade. .4.2. materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in law 5.4 and are additional to the blade. note however law 5.6. any such material shall not over any part of the back of the blade in the case of law 5.4.1 and then only when it is applied as continuous wrapping covering the damaged area. the repair material shall not along the length of the blade more than 0.79 in 2.0 cm in each direction beyond the limits of the damaged area. where used as continuous binding any overlapping shall not breach the ma of 0.04 in 0.1 cm in total thickness. the use of non solid material which when dry forms hard layer more than 0.004 in 0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted. additionally for protection from damage for bat types and material may be inserted at the toe and or along the sides parallel to the face of the blade. .4.3. permitted coverings repair material and toe guards not their specified thicknesses may be additional to the dimensions above but the bat must still pass through the gauge as described in .8. .5. toe and side inserts the wood used must not be more than 0.35 in 0.89 cm in thickness. the toe insert shall not from the toe more than 2.5 in 6.35 cm up the blade at any point. neither side insert may from the edge more thanin 2.54 cm across the blade at any point. .6 commercial identifications these identifications may not 0.008 in 0.02 cm in thickness. on the back of the blade they must occupy no more than 50 of the surface. on the face of the blade they must be confined within the topin 22.86 cm measured from where the bottom of the grip as defined in .2.2 and .2.4 would finish. .7 type bats type bats as defined shall comply with the size specifications and restrictions in lawand this appendix. the blade in addition may be .7.1 laminated but using only wood and with no more than three pieces. .7.2. coloured providing law 5.5 is not contravened. .8 bat gauge all bats that conform to the laws of cricket must meet the specifications defined in law 5.7. they must also with or without protective coverings permitted in law 5.4 be able to pass through bat gauge the dimensions and shape of which are shown in the diagram on the following page. appendix lawsthe pitch andthe creases preface the preamble the spirit of cricket lawthe players 1.1 number of players 1.2 nomination and replacement of players 1.3 captain 1.4 responsibility of captains lawthe umpires 2.1 appointment and attendance 2.2 change of umpire 2.3 consultation with captains 2.4 the wickets creases and boundaries 2.5 conduct of the match implements and equipment 2.6 fair and unfair play 2.7 fitness for play 2.8 suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances 2.9 position of umpires 2.10 umpires changing ends 2.11 disagreement and dispute 2.12 umpire decision 2.13 signals 2.14 informing the umpires 2.15 correctness of scores lawthe scorers 3.1 appointment of scorers 3.2 correctness of scores 3.3 acknowledging signals lawthe ball 4.1 weight and size 4.2 approval and control of balls 4.3 new ball 4.4 new ball in match of more than one day duration 4.5 ball lost or becoming unfit for play 4.6 specifications lawthe bat 5.1 the bat 5.2 the handle 5.3 the blade 5.4 protection and repair 5.5 damage to the ball 5.6 contact with the ball 5.7 bat size limits 5.8 categories of bat lawthe pitch 6.1 area of pitch 6.2 fitness of pitch for play 6.3 selection and preparation 6.4 changing the pitch 6.5 non turf pitches 6.6 junior cricket lawthe creases 7.1 cr 7.2 li cr 7.3 pi cr 7.4 cr lawwick ets 8.1 cr ip ti idth and pitching 8.2 size of stumps index 8.3 ai ls 8.4 ni cr ic 8.5 is si it ai ls lapre par ati on an ma int en an ce of the pla yin are 9.1 ol li 9.2 cl earing debris from the pitch 9.3 mowing 9.4 watering the pitch 9.5 re marking creases 9.6 maintenance of footholes 9.7 securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch 9.8 non turf pitches law 10 covering the pitch 10.1 before the match 10.2 during the match 10.3 removal of covers law 11 intervals 11.1 an interval 11.2 duration of intervals 11.3 allowance for interval between innings 11.4 changing agreed times of intervals 11.5 changing agreed time for lunch interval 11.6 changing agreed time for tea interval 11.7 lunch or tea intervalwickets down 11.8 intervals for drinks 11.9 agreement to forgo intervals 11.10 scorers to be informed law 12 start of play cessation of play 12.1 call of play 12.2 call of time 12.3 removal of bails 12.4 starting new over 12.5 completion of an over 12.6 last hour of match number of overs 12.7 last hour of match interruptions of play 12.8 last hour of match intervals between innings 12.9 conclusion of match 12.10 completion of last over of match 12.11bowler unable to complete an over during last hour of match law 13 innings 13.1 number of innings 13.2 alternate innings 13.3 completed innings 13.4 the toss 13.5 decision to be notified law 14 the follow on 14.1 lead on first innings 14.2 notification 14.3 first day play lost law 15 declaration and forfeiture 15.1 time of declaration 15.2 forfeiture of an innings 15.3 notification law 16 the result 16.1 win two innings match 16.2 win one innings match 16.3 umpires awarding match 16.4 matches in which there is an agreement under law 13.1.2 16.5 all other matches tie or draw 16.6 winning hit or 16.7 statement of result 16.8 correctness of result 16.9 mistakes in scoring 16.10 result not to be changed law 17 the over 17.1 number of balls 17.2 start of an over 17.3 validity of balls 17.4 call of over 17.5 umpire miscounting 17.6 bowler changing ends 17.7 finishing an over 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over law 18 scoring runs 18.1 run 18.2 runs disallowed and runs not scored 18.3 short runs 18.4 unintentional short runs 18.5 deliberate short runs 18.6 runs awarded for penalties 18.7 runs scored for boundaries 18.8 runs scored when batter is dismissed 18.9 runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of wicket 18.10 crediting of runs scored 18.11 batter returning to original end 18.12 batter returning to wicket he she has left law 19 boundaries 19.1 determining the boundary of the field of play 19.2 identifying and marking the boundary 19.3 restoring the boundary 19.4 ball grounded beyond the boundary 19.5 fielder grounded beyond the boundary 19.6 boundary allowances 19.7 runs scored from boundaries 19.8 overthrow or wilful act of fielder law 20 dead ball 20.1 ball is dead 20.2 ball finally settled 20.3 call of over or time 20.4 umpire calling and signalling dead ball 20.5 ball ceases to be dead 20.6 dead ball not to be revoked 20.7 dead ball ball counting as one of over law 21 no ball 21.1 mode of delivery 21.2 fair delivery the arm 21.3 ball thrown or delivered underarm action by umpires 21.4 bowler throwing towards striker end before delivery 21.5 fair delivery the feet 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball 21.7 ball bouncing more than once rolling along the ground or pitching off the pitch 21.8 ball causing the striker to leave the pitch or ball coming to rest in front of striker wicket 21.9 fielder intercepting delivery 21.10 ball bouncing over head height of striker 21.11 call of no ball for infringement of other laws 21.12 revoking call of no ball 21.13 no ball to over ride wide 21.14 ball not dead 21.15 penalty for no ball 21.16 runs resulting from no ball how scored 21.17 no ball not to count 21.18 out from no ball law 22 wide ball 22.1 judging wide 22.2 call and signal of wide ball 22.3 revoking call of wide ball 22.4 delivery not wide 22.5 ball not dead 22.6 penalty for wide 22.7 runs resulting from wide how scored 22.8 wide not to count 22.9 out from wide law 23 bye and leg bye 23.1 byes 23.2 leg byes 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded law 24 fielder absence substitutes 24.1 substitute fielders 24.2 fielder absent or leaving the field of play 24.3 penalty time not incurred 24.4 player returning without permission law 25 batter innings runners 25.1 eligibility to act as batter or runner 25.2 commencement of batter innings 25.3 restriction on batter commencing an innings 25.4 batter retiring 25.5 runners 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batter and his her runner 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 25.8 striker right to play the ball law 26 practice on the field 26.1 practice on the pitch or the rest of the square 26.2 practice on the outfield 26.3 trial run up 26.4 penalties for contravention law 27 the wicket keeper 27.1 protective equipment 27.2 gloves 27.3 position of wicket keeper 27.4 movement by wicket keeper 27.5 restriction on actions of wicket keeper 27.6 interference with wicket keeper by striker law 28 the fielder 28.1 protective equipment 28.2 fielding the ball 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 28.4 limitation of on side fielders 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch 28.6 movement by any fielder other than the wicket keeper law 29 the wicket is broken 29.1 the wicket is broken 29.2 breaking the wicket fairly 29.3 one bail off 29.4 remaking wicket 29.5 dispensing with bails law 30 batter out of his her ground 30.1 when out of his her ground 30.2 which is batter ground 30.3 position of non striker law 31 appeals 31.1 umpire not to give batter out without an appeal 31.2 batter dismissed 31.3 timing of appeals 31.4 appeal that 31.5 answering appeals 31.6 consultation by umpires 31.7 batter leaving the wicket under misapprehension 31.8 withdrawal of an appeal law 32 bowled 32.1 out bowled 32.2 bowled to take precedence law 33 caught 33.1 out caught 33.2 fair catch 33.3 making catch 33.4 no runs to be scored 33.5 caught to take precedence law 34 hit the ball twice 34.1 out hit the ball twice 34.2 not out hit the ball twice 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once 34.5 bowler does not get credit law 35 hit wicket 35.1 out hit wicket 35.2 not out hit wicket 35.3 runs scored law 36 leg before wicket 36.1 out lbw 36.2 interception of the ball 36.3 off side of wicket law 37 obstructing the field 37.1 out obstructing the field 37.2 not out obstructing the field 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught 37.4 returning the ball to fielder 37.5 runs scored 37.6 bowler does not get credit law 38 run out 38.1 out run out 38.2 batter not out run out 38.3 non striker leaving his her ground early 38.4 which batter is out 38.5 runs scored 38.6 bowler does not get credit law 39 stumped 39.1 out stumped 39.2 ball rebounding from wicket keeper person 39.3 not out stumped 39.4 runs scored law 40 timed out 40.1 out timed out 40.2 bowler does not get credit law 41 unfair play 41.1 fair and unfair play responsibility of captains 41.2 fair and unfair play responsibility of umpires 41.3 the match ball changing its condition 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batter 41.6 bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries 41.7 bowling of dangerous and unfair non pitching deliveries 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side 41.10 batter wasting time 41.11 the protected area 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch 41.13 bowler running on protected area 41.14 batter damaging the pitch 41.15 striker in protected area 41.16 batters stealing run 41.17 penalty runs 41.18 unfair actions law 42 players conduct 42.1 unacceptable conduct 42.2 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.3 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.5 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.6 captain refusing to remove player from the field 42.7 additional points relating to leveland leveloffences appendix definitions and of words or phrases not defined in the te .1 the match .2 implements and equipment a3 the playing area .4 positioning .5 umpires .6 batters .7 fielders .8 substitutes replacements and runners .9 bowlers .10 the ball .11 runs .12 the person .13 off side on side in front of behind the popping crease appendix the bat law.1. general guidance .2. specifications for the handle .3 specifications for the blade .4 protection and repair .5. toe and side inserts .6 commercial identifications .7 type bats .8 bat gauge appendix lawsthe pitch andthe creases appendix lawthe wickets appendix wicket keeping gloves