tom smith cricket umpiring and scoring introduction by david lloyd contents the players umpires and scorers in game of cricket may be of any gender and the laws apply equally. the use throughout the te of pronouns binary he she is as inclusive as practicable whilst retaining clarity. where specifically stated otherwise every provision of the laws is to be read as applying to all persons regardless of gender. mcc introduction introduction by david lloyd the author and history of this publication use of this publication acknowledgements partthe umpires and scorers partthe laws of cricket with interpretations partscoring partappendices index first published in great britain in 2019 by the marylebone cricket club mcc marylebone cricket club all rights reserved no part of this publication may be reproduced stored in retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means electronic mechanical photocopying recording or otherwise without the prior permission of the marylebone cricket club. the right of the marylebone cricket club to be identified as the author of the work has been asserted in accordance with the copyright designs and patents act 1988. cip catalogue record for this book is available from the british library. isbn 9785272 3896typeset by ed way of anyway creative printed in the uk by windsor using paper produced from sustainable sources all communications should be added to laws of cricket advisor marylebone cricket club lord cricket ground london nwe don united kingdom laws mcc.org.uk since its formation in 1787 the marylebone cricket club mcc has been recognised as the sole authority for drawing up the code of laws and for all subsequent amendments. the club also holds the world copyright. the basic laws of cricket have stood remarkably well the test of well over 250 years of playing the game. it is thought the real reason for this is that cricketers have traditionally been prepared to play in the spirit of the game as well as in accordance with the laws. although the international cricket council is the global governing body for cricket it still relies on mcc to write and interpret the laws of cricket which are applicable from the village green to the test arena. this book provides the definitive interpretation of the laws up to date for the 2nd edition of the 2017 code which came into force around the world on april 1st 2019. introduction by david lloyd our game is ever changing and with increased tv scrutiny and the advent of social media the laws of cricket have taken on greater importance than ever. technology in the game is cutting edge and televised matches are broadcast through more than 30 cameras showing every conceivable angle. drs is now firmly with us and is readily accepted by the match officials in professional cricket. real time replays slow motion replays rock roll replays are all in the mix to aid the umpires in arriving at the correct decision according to the laws of the game. so we are in the age of the challenge the umpire decision is challenged by the players and therefore the laws are challenged. but everyone has view... twitter and the like has seen to that. and the vast majority of umpires 99.9 don have technology to help them out on the field but that doesn mean they can escape the culture of challenge. all of that means that there has never been more important time to understand the laws of cricket. the 42 laws in their entirety can be complex read and some can take some unravelling and understanding. can firmly say that after more than 50 years involvement in this great game have yet to find anyone not least the players who knows and understands the laws inside out. do not despair your great friend in this regard is tom smith. three cheers for tom would say former umpire and football referee he compiled tom smith cricket umpiring and scoring. tom spelt out the interpretation of the laws of the game in great detail in layman terms and the good news is that the good people at the mcc have brought out this revised edition. the laws of cricket and tom smith go hand in glove bit like morecambe and wise if you are my vintage. or anderson and broad maybe even waqar and wasim. very good in their own right but the real deal when together. the author and history of this publication in 1953 the association of cricket umpires act was founded by the late tom smith 1909 19951 in response to variable standards of cricket umpiring at all levels of the non professional game the purpose of the station we to improve the standard of umpiring by education training and and to enhance the statue of umpires. during 1956tum smith worked with the late colonel rait kern former secretary of mcc prepare an association test book cricket umpiring and strings on the 1947 mcc code of laws and from 1961 following the death of col. rait kerr he assume the responsibility of revising the book as its editor through until 1979. during 1974 tom was appointed by the mcc to assist mr . . griffith former mcc secretary in revising and redrafting the 1947 code of laws at the request of the international cricket conference and was appointed by mcc to special redrafting committee set up to produce the final draft of the new code in 1980. the introduction of this 1980 mcc code of laws brought about the need for completely new and up to date version of cricket umpiring and scoring later revisions of the book were undertaken by sheila hill mbe and robbie rain and the name changed to tom smith cricket umpiring and scoring as tribute to the author it is now universally known in umpiring and scoring circles as just tom smith and the publication will always bear the name of tum smith in tribute to his contribution to the training of umpires. tom smith had been player cricket umpire and football referee and he served as general secretary of the acu for 25 years. he was well known and respected in every cricket playing country of the world and recognised as true authority on the laws of the game and the technique of cricket umpiring tom served term as member of the test and county cricket board cricket committee from its inception as member of the mcc cricket committee and at one time chairman of the national cricket association cricket committee. for services to cricket tom smith was awarded an mbe and honoured by the mcc with election to honorary life membership while in 1980 hrh duke of edinburgh also presented him with the national playing fields association torch trophy award for outstanding services to cricket . the association of cricket umpires later became the association of cricket umpires and scorers acu with the same aims for scorers as for umpires. then in january 2008 the england and wales cricket board association of cricket officials ecb aco was formed merging acu with recently formed ecb officials association. following the formation of ecb aco the rights to tom smith cricket umpiring and scoring were gifted to mcc as custodians of the laws of cricket. the last edition of tom smith was published in 2011 the mcc to cover the updates to the 4th edition of the 2000 code 2010 . since then there have been major changes to the laws in the 2013 5th edition and some minor changes in the 2015 6th edition. following the transfer of the rights for this publication to mcc and the start of the rewriting of the laws of cricket for the 2017 code it was decided that mcc would become more involved in the teaching of laws knowledge. apart from the publication of this latest version of tom smith as both hardcopy and as an ebook in 2017 mcc introduced fully illustrated elearning version of the laws https www.lords. org mcc laws of cricket learning in which series of modules allow progress to be tracked and an optional online basic and intermediate provides immediate feedback and certificate on the users understanding of the laws there is also free mcc laws of cricket app which combines the te of the laws visual and quiz section. this edition has been produced to give help and guidance on what is laid down in the 2017 code of laws and to how the game is to be administered on the field or recorded in the scorebook. it seeks both to educate and to acknowledge the many thousands of umpires and scorers around the world who each make their own contribution to the game. the book remains as tom would have wished straightforward account of the laws and their meaning to umpires and scorers. however it is not solely aimed at the officials as it is also for the players and spectators worldwide who enjoy the game with their own passion. use of this publication tom smith cricket umpiring and scoring has always been intended to be used alongside the laws themselves as way of and interpreting the little blue book it is reference book and readers are more likely to dip in and out than to read it cover to cover so there is some repetition between sections. however it does have structure outlined below which is intended to help the reader from aspiring umpire to test scorer or even casual player or spectator find the most relevant information as quickly and easily as possible partthe umpires and scorers includes commentary on the team of officials required for any cricket match. it covers necessary qualifications for undertaking such positions essential equipment and the role basic duties before during and after match and practical aspects of umpiring in particular. it should be noted that partof this book covers practical scoring and the duties of the scorer in much more detail. many of the umpires duties will be found within and throughout the 42 laws but the practical aspects are brought together here mainly in list form for convenience of reference. also to be found in partis guidance on important fieldcraft aspects such as positioning signalling and other communication with the scorers. this section is where the reader should first go for an overview of what the umpire is to do and for further advice on general practical fieldcraft issues. note that one of the ways in which the game haschanged over the years is the almost universal introduction of league or competition rules and regulations which include special playing conditions for different matches. whilst it is acknowledged that the umpires will always need to be fully familiar with any such conditions with only one or two specific they are not referred to in the law commentaries but are assumed to be applicable wherever they . partthe laws of cricket with interpretations includes as would be the full te of all 42 laws in law order at the start of the section on each law followed by detailed commentary with clarifications and interpretations of each of the points of law. the section starts with the preamble the spirit of cricket an important statement that underpins the whole ethos of the game. the format is one of reference te rather than continuous story. it is envisaged that users of this book will usually have at least some knowledge of the game of cricket and probably of an individual law and will be looking for interpretation of specific point or guidance on how to handle an on field situation. however for new students of the game it is intended to be as simple as possible. readers should be able to come to this section of the book with no prior knowledge and leave with good understanding of the game of cricket from the point of view of an official. for guidance the commentary in each section covers the relevant law roughly in the order in which the law is written but pulls together similar aspects where appropriate. reference within the commentary to specific clauses of that law are not necessarily numbered so as not to continually break up the flow of the te but references to other laws are numbered to facilitate cross checking given the nature of umpiring often the interpretations will lead into questions of fieldcraft. however there are some instances where guidance on fieldcraft is given. these are found at the end of the law. when researching particular situation it may be necessary to study more than one law but use of the index and the cross references should allow speedy resolution. partscoring addresses the importance of the role of the scorers in any match and increasingly in the modern game where scores are frequently published on line in real time. this section gives guidance on the classic forms of scoring and provides handy references to unusual scorebook entries and of course the impact on scoring of all the latest laws. partthe appendices are an integral and sometimes overlooked part of the laws of cricket. they are reproduced in full here and should be thoroughly by any serious student of the game. first comes definitions of all the otherwise undefined terms that appear throughout the laws which should certainly be looked up when seeking clarification of any point of law. other appendices cover detailed specifications for the bat including the new bat gauge and annotated diagrams with the measurements for the pitch the creases the wickets and wicket keeper gloves. the index completes the book and is both comprehensive and intuitive with key words and multiple related subjects which hopefully make finding point of law straightforward. acknowledgments mcc thanks the former association of cricket umpires and scorers for entrusting to them in 2008 the copyright of tom smith cricket umpiring scoring and the responsibility for future editions. mcc acknowledges david lloyd contribution with his wonderful introduction to the book and the constant support he has given to the book so publically. thanks are also to simon taufel sundaram ravi and graeme swann for their generous comments about the book which appear on the back cover. the members of mcc staff and the mcc laws sub committee have devoted great deal of time to the production of this edition and the club places on record its gratitude to all involved. particular thanks go to deborah burns who gave up huge amount of her time and considerable to assist the mcc laws of cricket advisor jonny singer with the writing editing and proof reading of the edition. thanks also to hugh chapman who provided voluntary proof reading service without which many more errors would have slipped through. this edition also owes huge amount to its predecessor compiled brilliantly by sheila hill mbe. sue drinkwater sue jones phil makepeace and andy scarlett are also thanked for their useful contributions to the scoring section. mcc is grateful to matt bright for the pictures that appear on the covers of this addition and appreciative of the photography provided by clare skinner which brings the laws to life and thanks members of the mcc young cricketer programme and middlesex women cricketers who posed for those pictures. our thanks are also due to the mcc design team and ed way for their work in the design and layout of the book. partthe umpires and scorers 1. training of officials cricket at all levels junior club league first class and international needs officials of the appropriate quality this means both umpires and scorers with scoring being of increasing importance in today competitive and statistics. hungry world. although the recruitment and training of umpires and scorers has improved enormously there are still far too few to cover the many thousands of games of cricket played every week around the world. just as ecb has done for the uk and europe major cricketing countries have set up their own schemes for the training and development of officials. icc has recruited and encouraged these countries to help with such work in countries where resources are not yet sufficient for the task. as the game has developed in the 21st century more demands than ever have been placed on both umpires and scorers to get it right demands brought about by the increasing of decisions scrutinized by the television cameras. this has the benefit of highlighting far more often than not the decisions made by umpires at that level. this book can form an important part of the training of officials. it is not intended to be an alternative to proper umpire and scorer education but it can be used alongside and after training courses to help officials better understand the laws and their implications. 2. necessary qualifications physical qualifications an umpire needs to have eyesight and hearing on the field. this can and often does include sight and hearing aided by equipment properly prescribed glasses or contact lenses are perfectly acceptable. hearing loss can be corrected by hearing aids once viewed with suspicion but now more readily accepted by players. an umpire must also be able to cope with long hours in the field. physical stamina is important but more important still is the need to be able to concentrate throughout long sessions of play. although not standing or moving about in the field scorers have precisely the same need for concentration over long period. complete concentration is needed to pick up and register even the smallest points of the action. concentration by the umpire on every detail will aid good anticipation and correct positioning for making judgments for the scorer it will mean understanding of events on the field which will lead to correct recording. how well an official is able to carry out his her job will be limited by their age health and physical fitness. there is little an umpire or scorer can do about these. however they can control some factors the importance of good hydration and taking on adequate water or energy drinks should not be underestimated. personal qualifications scorers have to interact with each other and with the players who will see them as source of information especially while the umpires are on the field and therefore unable to answer the batting side queries. events may happen in rapid succession on the field with barely time to record them. getting flustered will only make things worse. scorer needs to keep calm at the job whatever the issue and to remain approachable as person. he she must also have the ability to cope with numbers and dedication to accuracy of detail. an umpire must above all be person of integrity. when under pressure it is not easy to keep calm and to remain completely neutral and unbiased. it is essential to do so. an umpire needs to cope not only with the application of the laws but also with the attitudes of the players. an umpire must be firmly in control of the game without being pedantic or officious. he she must not let absolute impartiality be undermined by the behaviour of the players nor by the state of the game. an umpire will therefore need to be able to weigh up evidence quickly. he she will need an even temper and often good humour to respond sensibly to the players. the players may well be over particularly in close game. an umpire must not be. he she will need the confidence to remain calm fearlessly continuing to control the game in accordance with the laws. above all an umpire needs good match management to deal with both the une event and the awkward player. what is sometimes called common sense in fact rare quality is important. technical qualifications it should go without saying that an umpire needs thorough knowledge of the laws of cricket. it is the general of umpires that however much personal study they have undertaken however much they have discussed details with others however many classes they have attended there is always something to learn. from time to time there will be as with the 2017 code new points to learn and changes to old laws to take on board. scorers have less onerous task in that many of the details of the laws are for the umpires to administer and do not affect scoring. they must however know with great accuracy those laws which do affect scoring and have complete familiarity with the techniques for recording the events of the game. both umpires and scorers must practise their craft thoroughly just as players must train to improve umpires and scorers will not get better without deliberate focussed practice. theoretical knowledge alone will not make either good umpire or good scorer every umpire will make mistakes from time to time just as every player does whether fielder bowler batsman or captain. theoretical knowledge will help the umpire to avoid mistakes through ignorance of the law. only will help in avoiding errors both of observation and judgment. in this respect umpiring and scoring are similar to driving car . knowing what to do is only the first stage. only with practice will it become practical possibility to interpret traffic conditions look in the mirror and watch the road ahead signal steer and change gear virtually all at the same time. trainee umpires and scorers must take every opportunity of building up match . even if some of this is at very low level it will contribute to an official skills and help in dealing effectively with more testing matches. although different in many ways from normal game of cricket indoor cricket can provide valuable for an umpire. the very fast action within the confined space requires quick reaction and positioning together with sharp observation as the ball ricochets off the walls and needing to tell the scorers how many runs are scored off each delivery is practice. very large part of an umpire match craft will be handling situations under pressure. the trainee umpire will fortunately not encounter the instant big screen replay to spectators in slow motion what the umpire him herself had only split second to see. many players do not realise that matches at the highest level are played under special playing conditions which may differ considerably from the laws and from the regulations in their own local league. nevertheless the attitudes of club and youth players are often coloured by what they have seen in high level matches. they are likely to in club game something of what happens in test match these can create pressure on the umpire which he she must learn to withstand. confidence in his her knowledge of the laws and of the playing conditions if any. that apply in the game he she is umpiring together with the skill and understanding built up through are the best weapons for combating such pressure. 3. the role of the umpire the word umpire first used certainly as long ago as 1714 but possibly earlier is development of the old middle english word nompere derived from the old french nomper nom not per equal . the umpire is to be seen as without equal he she must be part of the game and yet separate from it. good rapport with the players is essential and yet the umpire must also be apart from them. he she must be fair and unbiased and have his her decisions accepted without question. respect for the umpire is one of the requirements of the spirit of cricket to an that respect is given and should be shown towards the umpire from the moment of his her arrival at the ground. that said it is the position of an umpire for which respect must be shown and the individual must also earn that respect or at least ensure it is not lost through his her actions. it follows that the umpire must act with responsibility and dignity. although the players can make it difficult to maintain patience and composure even in cases direct confrontation must be avoided. incidents of gamesmanship sometimes amounting to cheating can occur at any level of the game. the laws lay down penalties for these occurrences and while umpires should not be desperate to demonstrate their powers neither should they be afraid of using them where necessary. in considering an appeal an umpire must not be swayed by its volume or apparent confidence. it is quite normal for the whole team to raise shout of how that although most of them are in no position to know the facts. the umpire must give each appeal whether concerted one or quiet enquiry by one player the same weight of consideration. umpires are advised not to offer detailed justification of their decisions either on or off the field. on the other hand if after call of no ball the bowler asks whether it was his front foot or his back foot an not telling you attitude will do nothing for player umpire relations. it is much wiser to give simple answer to polite enquiry to say which foot or in response to polite enquiry about lbw to say it pitched just outside leg at the close of play of the law is entirely sensible but an umpire must not get drawn into an argument about his her judgment or that of the other umpire. loyalty towards colleague must be absolute. the umpire who does not make mistake does not . there will be times when too late an umpire realises that mistake has been made. there are then two options if the realisation is immediate and the error can be corrected then it should be. the umpire might have called ball wide when in fact it brushed the batsman person. if his her colleague notices or the umpire him herself simply realises mistake has been made the call can be revoked. players will respect the umpire who can admit mistake and fix it immediately far more than one who persists with decision he she knows to be wrong. there is more on changing decision and revoking call in partunder lawpage 60 . if however the mistake cannot be fi or the realisation comes too late the only solution is for the umpire to put it out of his her mind. to lose concentration by worrying about mistake will only lead to more mistakes. it is also totally out of order for an umpire to think that he she can try to be fair by making another mistake. not only are the consequences of any such act quite unpredictable so that the umpire may in fact make matters worse but he she will very quickly lose the players confidence. after any match the thoughtful umpire will reflect on their performance and attempt to learn from any mistakes so that he she can improve and make fewer errors in future. that is the right time to dwell on mistakes not during the match itself. the law also allows an umpire in doubt to consult his her colleague insists in fact that he she does so. consultation is clearly necessary and wise if mistakes are to be kept to minimum. not to consult would be not only breach of the law but lack of good sense. however consultation for its own sake is not encouraged. an umpire who is confident that he she has the best view of an incident and knows what has taken place need not seek their colleague permission to make decision and players will quickly grow frustrated with an umpiring team who consult every other ball. instead consultation should be for those instances where the other umpire has better or different view. for the striker end umpire may have been able to see the breaking of the wicket which was not visible to the bowler end umpire because the striker was between him her and the stumps. the law states in some cases that the umpires must consult together for in considering the safety or otherwise of the conditions of ground weather or light. different reason for consultation will be in some instances of misconduct. in some cases such as deciding on breach of law 42 it is mandatory. where this is not so it may be necessary but will not be required if the facts are clear. there are situations however when it will be sensible to check that the other umpire takes the same view perhaps as to the deliberateness or otherwise of for batsman getting in fielder way. such consultation can be anything from an eyebrow raised in query to full conversation. it is obviously vital that there should be no doubt as to what the question is nor as to what answer is being given. this interdependence should more widely than asking and answering questions on the field. not only must the two umpires appointed for match work together from the start on all aspects of the game on basis of absolute mutual confidence but they will with the scorers form team offering mutual understanding and support as well as factual information. even if the views of one differ from those of another this must never be allowed to create negative feelings and they should always present united front to the players. 4. dress and equipment dress scorer is often judged by the appearance of the scorebook as well as by its accuracy. similarly for the umpire dress and personal appearance are important. this smartness is not only for his her image and how he she is viewed by the players but for self confidence. trainee umpires as well as learning the laws and acquiring good field technique through should keep the highest standards of dress. an umpire should not white coat to be hanging in the dressing room. for start white coats are no longer standard dress and even if there is one it will probably not come up to standard it may not even fit the umpire is responsible for his her own appearance and thus his her own kit. he she should arrive with an official umpiring jacket which fits properly and is clean and professional looking. jacket that has sat at the bottom of kit bag since the previous weekend will not give the correct impression if the match is under the administration of controlling body there may be dress code if so umpires must be aware of it. if there is no dress code the usual is for umpires to wear black or navy trousers white cotton or polo shirt and white hat. some umpires will choose to wear tie although it is not usually regarded as essential and indeed in many matches would look outdated neat collared neckline is must. in very hot weather rolling up sleeves or not wearing coat or jacket is sensible. it is convention for both umpires to dress similarly so both should wear coat jacket or both dispense with one and unless the umpire clothing has been prescribed it is usual for umpires to discuss and agree on this before the start of match. it is worth pointing out for the sake of both safety and presentation that standing in the sun for long period of time can be both uncomfortable and dangerous. sun cream may well be important particularly for those of paler comple or umpires who are not used to conditions. an umpire who turns up to the second day of multi day game with serious sunburn will not only not look the part but may also be in serious discomfort. hat is also important sun stroke will take its toll on both the umpire health and judgment. remember that an umpire is not clothes stand. carrying the bowler cap and sweater is reasonable service. carrying sweaters for half the team is not. the law specifies where fielder helmet is to be placed if he she is not wearing it. it is not for the umpire to carry it nor any other items that player has forgotten to leave in the dressing room sunglasses there is general acceptance nowadays of the need to protect eyes from ultraviolet radiation in strong sunlight. in many cases cap or hat will give sufficient protection. if it does not it is better to wear sunglasses particularly if they are tinted polarised or with photo chromatic prescription lenses than to leave the eyes unprotected and the umpire unable to see when facing the sun. the individual umpire though must judge if the weather conditions are such that seeing the ball clearly is better with or without sunglasses. counters one essential duty of the umpire is to count the balls in each over. every umpire should establish method of counting with which he she feels comfortable and which becomes automatic over time. if he she uses pebbles or other objects as counters it is advisable to have spare in an inner pocket where it cannot be confused with the ones in use. he she should check that there are six counters at the start of every over. the umpire must have an absolutely rigid system for transferring from unused to used as each ball is delivered and ensure it is the same time each ball. some umpires like to do so as the ball is delivered others will wait until the ball is dead. either is acceptable provided the umpire does the same every ball so as to avoid confusion. he she should have some means of keeping any unused counters separate from the used ones if he she has to remake the wicket write notes or do anything else that requires the use of both hands. some umpires prefer to use specialised ball counter this is also acceptable. it will be up to an individual umpire to make decision based on what he she finds most comfortable and most useful. watch the law specifies that the umpires agree which timepiece is to be used to time the match normally pavilion clock if there is one. they should also agree which timepiece is to be used if the selected one fails. both umpires should carry watch and should check it against the agreed master timepiece before the start of the match. they should also check that the scorers times agree with their own. pencil and paper these are essential. an umpire may need to make notes of points to discuss later with the scorers or even to send notes to the scorers though this would be rare. the main use for writing equipment however will be to make notes of the bowlers batsmen number of balls etc at an interval and increasingly time lost for all manner of events. these points are set out further below and in part 2. if umpiring in match where there is restriction on the number of overs allowed to an individual bowler the umpire will need some means of recording those overs. printed overs cards with space for noting other matters are widely available and can be very helpful. they are not mandatory and if an umpire has his her own efficient system of recording which he she prefers then that is completely acceptable providing it leads to an accurate record from which question about the number of overs left can be easily answered. any disruption in the last hour of match is also something which must be easily captured to allow quick calculations see law 12 . laws and regulations law 2.1 sets out that the umpires are required to control the match as required by the laws. however these days nearly all matches and certainly competition league national and international matches will be governed by regulations or playing conditions issued by the governing body for that particular match. these additional regulations will address many aspects of play hours of play format of the match bowling and fielding restrictions how to manage time lost during match and the way result is calculated. law 2.3.1.6 makes it the responsibility of the umpires to determine any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match and it is these special regulations or playing conditions to which this law refers. as virtually all aspects of play may be affected reference will not be made to playing conditions throughout partunless there is particular reason. this does not mean it is not important for all umpires to be fully familiar with playing conditions before match. both umpires must familiarise themselves with the specific special regulations and playing conditions for each match in which they officiate and be prepared to advise captains of their implications throughout the match. an umpire should not need to refer either to the laws or to the playing conditions specific to that match. however both should be carried in case some point arises that can be settled by reference to an official te. the mcc publishes the laws in small book designed to fit into an umpire pocket. balls the balls to be used in the match will have to be determined by the umpires before the match. the umpires must then take charge of them. the playing conditions governing the particular competition or match will usually specify the type or make of ball to be used and the umpires should ensure they are provided usually by the home team captain before the start of the match. if new ball is to be used after certain number of overs the umpires will need to take one on to the field at the start of session in which these overs are likely to be completed. they may also want to carry or should at least have readily available some spare balls in differing stages of wear for use as replacement where the laws allow. it is usual for the home club to provide these and they can be left with the scorers to save bulk in the pockets unless it is ground where it is known that the ball is commonly lost. bails these should be provided by the ground authority. many umpires carry their own to guarantee matching pair. each should also carry spare in case of damage or breakage during play. in high winds heavy bails may be required to avoid dispensing with bails so set of these should also be available. the use of heavy bails and when bails should be dispensed with altogether is addressed under lawpage 89 . bowler marker bowlers need something to mark the start of their run ups. such items are usually supplied by the ground authority but it is wise for each umpire to have marker of his her own to produce if necessary. if there is no marker the bowler will probably kick out divot instead which is bad for the ground and in the worst case might lead to an injury if fielder or another bowler steps in it. markers should always be collected after play to prevent damage to mowers and other equipment. drying material piece of cloth or small towel for drying the ball should always be carried even on fine day. it may be needed for instance to dry the ball after retrieval from long grass which is still wet or nearby stream or there may even be une light rain. summary the amount an umpire can carry is limited. however play must not be held up because an umpire is lacking particular item. personal items are best left off the field. those items regarded as essential are ball counters with spare means for noting down overs fall of wickets and score if appropriate watch pencil and paper mcc law book competition or league regulations bails with spares bowler marker drying material the equipment essential to scorer is clearly set out in partthe section on scoring. 5. the umpire duties although dealt with in some detail under the appropriate laws in partsummary is set out here collecting together in one place the instructions scattered throughout part 2. the umpires will work as part of the team of at least four officials with the two scorers and also between themselves as team of two. the striker end umpire as well as having some clearly defined responsibilities of his her own must remain alert throughout to be ready at all times to assist and support the bowler end umpire. equally at times the bowler end umpire will be able to assist the other umpire and must be ready to do so. duties before the match lawdirects the umpires to report for duty at least 45 minutes before the start of day play. in practice it is better to arrive earlier. there is much to be done before the match starts. the duties set out below are not necessarily to be done in the order listed. 1. report to ground meet colleague and together inspect boundaries and sight screens. 2. together inspect pitch wickets and creases. 3. check on the availability of covers and wet weather equipment especially sawdust. 4. check with ground authority the procedure for outfield mowing if appropriate. 5. obtain bails and if possible used balls for use as replacements. 6. meet captains. confirm hours of play and intervals time pieces boundaries and allowances including whether any fi obstacle is or is not to be designated boundary . discuss any implications of the relevant playing conditions and the use of covers. having determined which balls are to be used take possession of them. 7. meet scorers. inform them of details above. agree the method by which scorers will acknowledge signals. 8. receive nomination of players before the toss takes place. 9. check toss is made within the time limits. at least one of the umpires must accompany the captains on to the field of play for toss to be made. 10. ensure scorers know result of toss and decision by winner 11. walk out with colleague at least five minutes before play is due to start. if available bell should be rung but ensure the captains know you are going. agree at which end each umpire will stand. 12. recheck wicket alignment and place bails in position 13. discover from which end bowling is to start. 14. check that there are no more than eleven fielders. bowler end umpiretake the following actions in suitable order notify the bowler action and give guard to the striker give marker if necessary to the bowler help if necessary with the alignment of the sight screen give the match ball to the bowler.make the following checks in suitable order that the fielding captain has finished setting the field that the other umpire is ready that the scorers are in position and ready that both batsmen are ready that the other umpire agrees that time to start has been reached.call play. duties during play bowler end umpire 1. calls play at the start of the match and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption. 2. counts the number of balls in the over. 3. watches bowler feet placement during delivery. 4. watches close fielders for pitch encroachment and other fielders for unfair movement. 5. judges whether balls are fast short pitched deliveries or high non pitching deliveries. 6. observes position of batsmen with regard to crossing on each run particularly when the action indicates possible run out at the other end. 7. calls and signals no balls within his her jurisdiction calls and signals all wide balls. 8. watches for calls and signals short runs at his her end. 9. signals all penalties to the scorers. 10. repeats all appropriate signals to the scorers when the ball is dead including no balls called by the other umpire. 11. gives final signal of short runs to the scorers indicating the number of runs to be recorded if more than one. 12. answers appeals for bowled caught hit the ball twice lbw obstructing the field timed out and when it is at his her end run out. 13. calls and signals dead ball when appropriate. 14. calls over at the specified time. 15. signals to scorers when new ball is taken and when the last hour begins. 16. satisfies him herself that the score is correct throughout 17. watches for all forms of unfair play and player misconduct and takes appropriate action. 18. finds out if not told reason for departure of fielder gives permission for return. 19. calculates time to elapse before fielder can bowl after return and if any penalty time is to be carried forward to the ne innings and for handling law 42 offences. 20. calls time at the start of any interval or interruption and at the end of the match. 21. together with other umpire decides whether substitute fielder or runner is justified. 22. makes decisions as to the fitness of the conditions for play. 23. with other umpire speaks to the captains about disciplinary issues and reports as necessary to team and governing body. striker end umpire 1. counts the number of balls in the over as check to support colleague. 2. watches all the action of play to be ready to assist he other umpire at all times. 3. observes bowler arm action for fairness of delivery 4. checks number of on side fielders behind the popping crease at the instant of delivery. 5. if applicable checks number of fielders inside outside fielding restriction circles. 6. checks position of wicket keeper from ball coming into play until it comes into contact with striker or passes wicket or striker attempts run. 7. calls and signals dead ball when appropriate. 8. calls and signals no balls within his her jurisdiction. 9. observes position of batsmen with regard to crossing on each run particularly when the action indicates possible run out at the other end or when his her colleague may have to adjudicate on some other dismissal such as caught. 10. observes the position of the runner for an injured batsman. 11. watches for calls and signals short runs at his her end. 12. watches all fielders for unfair movement before the striker receives the delivery. 13. answers appeals for hit wicket stumped and when it is at his her end run out. 14. watches for all forms of unfair play and player misconduct and takes the specified action. 15. satisfies him herself that the score is correct throughout . 16. checks timing with colleague for calculation of time when returning fielder can bowl and bat if appropriate and for handling law 42 offences. 17. together with other umpire decides whether substitute fielder is justified. 18. makes decisions as to the fitness of the conditions for play. 19. with other umpire speaks to the captains about disciplinary issues and reports as necessary to team and governing body. checking the score umpires are required to satisfy themselves of the correctness of the scores and to make the final decision about the result should there be any discrepancies. this does not usually mean the umpires actually need to keep score although they may have to if they are working with ine scorers for more on this see lawsand 16 . this responsibility only to the overall totals of runs and wickets and overs where relevant but not to details. on grounds with state of the art scoreboards they will be able to see each run as it is recorded so checking is instant. this is not always the case and umpires will need to keep some sort of record to check as the scoreboard is changed. when required devices such as simple clickers which advance the display byclick can be used but should interfere with other umpiring duties. it is sensible practice to check with your colleague at the fall of wicket perhaps that you agree. in game where each bowler is permitted only stated number of overs or in age group cricket umpires should check they agree what each bowler not has bowled. should an umpire note difference to the scoreboard he she should not rush to deal with it but make note of the problem at the time. often the discrepancy disappears after short time. however if it persists he she should check with his her colleague at suitable moment. the mistake may be by the umpire and embarrassment by wrongly challenging the scorers will then be avoided. if however both umpires agree quiet word with the scorers when circumstances permit will usually resolve the difficulty. at times it may be more urgent towards the end of especially close match everyone should be aware of the correct score. agreeing this between umpires and scorers should be done quickly and quietly and once sorted ensure that the players are aware of the correct score . duties at cessation of play law 11 makes clear what is to count as an interval. an interruption when play has to be suspended without prior arrangement is self evident. in many cases of either an interruption or an interval an over will be in progress and unless an innings has ended is to be continued if and when play resumes. whatever the cause the bowler end umpire will call time. both sets of bails are to be removed although this act has no significance in law and is purely to indicate that time has been called. the list of duties below is divided into those relevant in different situations. it collects together items set out in partin the relevant laws. innings to resume after interval or interruption the following to be noted 1. the time at which time is called. 2. how many balls if any remain in the over and who is bowling it. 3. if an over is in progress who bowled the previous over. 4. at which end bowling is to resume. the umpire at that end takes charge of the ball. 5. which batsmen are at which ends. the umpires should agree these details and make written record of them whether it is an interruption or an arranged interval even if it is only drinks interval. it is easy to forget for instance which batsmen were at which end. umpires may wonder why the previous bowler information is necessary if an over is in progress at break in play. it is precaution against the current bowler being unable to continue for any reason after the break. the previous bowler could not finish the over. innings to resume after arranged interval 6. unless it is drinks interval agree with the other umpire and the scorers the number of runs and wickets and if relevant the number of overs. 7. have creases re marked if necessary and possible. 8. have debris removed from the pitch. 9. if the interval is between one day and the ne supervise mowing sweeping and rolling ne morning. at end of innings 1. note the time at which time is called. 2. agree with the other umpire and the scorers the number of runs and wickets and if relevant the number of overs. 3. supervise any permitted rolling requested by the batting captain together with associated sweeping or other removal of debris as applicable. 4. have creases re marked if at all possible. 6.positioning of umpires guidance on where to stand is given in partin several laws however it should be stressed that positioning is complex and often personal part of umpiring. there is rarely right answer however there are basic requirements listed below that must be met. the key principle for umpires are safe and best umpires should be in the safest position to achieve the best view in order to carry out their duties. how these are achieved is for each individual umpire to work out for him herself using and judgment. the major points for the bowler end umpire as the ball is being delivered are he she must be able to see where the bowler feet land in the delivery stride the line between wicket and wicket with both sets of stumps in line the flight of the ball after delivery only swivelling the eyes without head movement. he she must not impede the bowler in the run up the striker view of the final part of the bowler run up. these requirements mean that the umpire must be far enough back to see where the back foot lands to be able to see at least the upper part of the near wicket at the same time as events at the far end for bowler running round from behind the umpire not to come into the striker view at the last minute. on this point the bowler will usually be asked to run in front of the umpire rather than behind him her but each case will be judged according to circumstances. the umpire must also be directly in the line between wicket and wicket though behind the stumps . he she will choose what within these parameters is the safest and most comfortable for him herself and for the bowler. the umpire should agree to bowler request to move only as long as he she can still meet the conditions above. he she must politely but firmly refuse to move outside these limits. it used to be common for the umpire to bend forward during the time of the bowler run up and delivery. this is not good idea. bending forward briefly to judge run out can however be helpful. seeing the ball in flight as soon as possible after the bowler feet have landed is crucial. the umpire must be watching the path of the ball and judging its pace for possible lbw appeal for possible touch on the bat to see whether the ball rises too sharply after pitching to see whether it is high non pitching ball to see whether it is or could have been within the striker reach to see whether the batsman makes genuine attempt to play the ball or to avoid being hit by it. the umpire must not let his her attention dwell on the bowler feet once they have landed even if he she has to call no ball for an incorrect foot placement. if the ball goes out into the field the bowler end umpire must be ready to move very quickly to position where he she has side on view of the wicket and creases to watch for completion of each run if the wicket is broken that it is properly and fairly put down what is happening to the ball in the field when the batsmen cross if they do watch that the batsmen do not run on the pitch. to see all of this the umpire should be far enough from the stumps to be able to see the wicket and the popping crease at the same time. which side of the wicket the umpire moves to is matter of preference and dependent on where the ball has been hit more of this in part. however what is essential is that he she must not get in the way of the throw in both not to disadvantage the fielders and for the umpire own safety. he she must be on the side opposite to runner not only to avoid the runner impeding the umpire view of the wicket and creases but also to avoid having the runner behind him her where he she cannot judge whether the runner is within his her ground. this may require an umpire to change his her usual habit no easy task. great concentration is needed to adapt to each situation. in the case of the ball being hit back directly towards the stumps at his her end the umpire will not have time to reach the ideal position and if the ball has been hit firmly he she may have had to take action for his her own safety that make clear view even more difficult. where possible he she must get in the best position available not impeding the fielder who may be trying to catch the ball or touch it before it hits the stumps but if safe with at least diagonal view of the breaking of the wicket and the position of the non striker. it is more important that the umpire head is still at the moment of judgment than that he she gets foot or two further away. he she will be in even greater difficulty if the bowler his her right to attempt to run out the non striker before delivering the ball. change in the rhythm of sound of the bowler feet behind the umpire coupled with an awareness that the non striker has left his her ground will help to alert the switched on umpire to this possibility. finally in taking up position for the delivery of each ball the umpire must ensure that the other umpire is ready and in position to observe events. the latter may have had to remake the wicket or to move across from one side to the other. it would be bad mistake to allow the ball to come into play without the striker end umpire ready to see it delivered. if the bowler end umpire realises his her colleague is not ready or indeed if the striker is not ready then he she should step into the path of the bowler or put out an arm on the side the bowler going to deliver the ball to indicate to the bowler not to start is or to stop his her run up and be ready to call and signal dead ball if this is not effective the major points for the striker end umpire as the ball is being delivered are he she must be able to see the bowler arm action in the delivery swing the wicket keeper position and actions in relation to the stumps at the striker end that there are no more than two fielders behind the popping crease on the on side at the instant of delivery that there is no significant movement by any fielders before the ball is received other than in response to batsman movement as described under laws 27 and 28 of partif the wicket is broken in what manner and by whom this was done where the runner is if there is one as well as the creases. he she must not impede the fielders. the striker end umpire position will be square to the wicket normally at square leg in line with the popping crease straddling the crease with one foot either side. he she should be far enough back to be safe ball hit hard by the batsman can pose danger but not so far as to lose credibility for decisions. this is usually about pitch length away although that distance can alter particularly if there is fielder at square leg. in general it is better to be behind the starting position of fielder than to have such fielder walking past as the bowler runs up. the striker end umpire may find it helpful to move pace sideways nearer to the bowling crease if the wicket keeper is up close to check that the latter remains entirely behind the wicket especially in the event of an attempted catch or stumping. he she will go to the off side for one of five reasons there is something preventing clear view of the crease and wickets such as close short leg fielder blocking his her view or low sun to obtain different view of the bowler arm action if he she feels it to be necessary there are two fielders behind the line of the popping crease on the leg side and further fielder behind the umpire position who might encroach but is out of the line of sight there is runner who is placed at square leg to be out of the fielders way. when the striker end umpire moves he she is to inform the captain of the fielding side the striker and the other umpire. all three can be informed with one sufficiently audible call to the captain of the fielding side at moment when it will not distract from his her duties as captain. if the ball goes out into the field the striker end umpire must be in position to see the same first four things listed for the bowler end umpire completion of each run if the wicket is broken that it is properly and fairly put down what is happening to the ball in the field when the batsmen cross if they do. he she will already be square on to the crease and far enough away from the stumps. the only problem is that he she may have the view of the creases blocked by fielder moving across his her line of vision. move to one side or the other will allow the umpire to see the wicket the creases and the batsman. if the ball has been hit behind the striker end umpire towards the boundary he she must move into position where he she can with just the turn of the head see the fielder who is throwing in the ball and the position of any batsman running to his her end. it is imperative always to know where the ball is and to avoid being in the direct line of throw in at all times. both umpires will with be able to set up rhythm for watching the progress of the ball in play the completion of each run at his her own end and the batsmen crossing. in addition each will soon learn to recognise when it is imperative for him her to watch for the crossing while the other umpire attention has to be on some other aspect of the action. 7.signals and signalling code of signals is laid down in law 2. these are the means by which the umpires communicate with the scorers. they also have role in informing the players. the law sets out the signals that are to be made while the ball is in play these are in different order no ball also to be called wide ball also to be called dead ball also to be called out in the first two the ball does not become dead play continues. the third and fourth cause the ball to be dead. while the ball is in play the umpire attention must be directed to what is happening in the field of play rather than to communicating information to scorers. however umpires will often make subtle pre signal to alert the scorer that signal will be given once the ball is dead. this is usually used if there are to be leg byes but can be helpful to both colleague and scorer if any signal is to be repeated when the ball is dead though not short run or disallowance of runs see below . any of the first three signals no ball wide ball or dead ball made during play are to be repeated to the scorers by the bowler end umpire together with any others that may be needed when the ball is dead. if several signals are made it is essential that each signal is acknowledged separately. single acknowledgement is not enough to confirm that the scorers have seen all of them in some situations there could be three or even more signals so individual acknowledgement is essential. if several signals are to be given the order in which they should be made should reflect the order in which the events occurred. when the ball is dead the umpire will signal in sequence that if relevant will finish with boundary. this is the event that the scorers are most likely to have seen for themselves and will therefore be to be signalled and will know that signalling is not finished until they have seen the boundary. however if there are penalty runs and or signal for law 42 leveloroffences these will need to be signalled at an appropriate point in the sequence and acknowledgment received. if no signal is given when the ball is dead the scorers will know that any runs they have seen the batsmen complete have come from the bat and are to be credited to the striker and that there are no other runs or penalties. if this is not the case the umpire should signal whatever may be necessary in the following order 1. no ball or wide ball additional runs from these penalties aside from any short runs are to be signalled after the signal is repeated in the order below. 2. byes or leg byes 3. short run this will tell the scorers to deduct one run from the number observed 4. boundaryor boundary5. penalty runs 6. law 42 levelor levelif there has been breach of law 42 the relevant signal will need to be given afterpenalty runs and before the call of play to restart the match. dead ball must be inserted at the appropriate point in the sequence. its message is that all runs the scorers have seen the batsmen make are to be disregarded but that any runs already signalled are to count. for instance no ball followed by dead ball will mean that the one run penalty for the no ball is to count but nothing else. similarly if runs by the batsmen are to be disallowed but penalty runs allowed then the appropriate signal for these should be given before dead ball is repeated. for deliberate short running signal of dead ball is more appropriate than short run. the latter without any supplementary information cancels only one run the former cancels all runs by the batsmen. partthe laws of cricket with interpretations these laws are those of the 2017 code 2nd edition 2019 . the laws are copyright to .cc they may not be reproduced without written permission from that body. the preamble the spirit of cricket cricket owes much of its appeal and enjoyment to the fact that it should be played not only according to the laws but also within the spirit of cricket. the major responsibility for ensuring fair play rests with the captains but to all players match officials and especially in junior cricket teachers coaches and parents. respect is central to the spirit of cricket. respect your captain team mates opponents and the authority of the umpires. play hard and play fair. accept the umpire decision. create positive atmosphere by your own conduct and encourage others to do likewise. show self discipline even when things go against you. congratulate the opposition on their successes and enjoy those of your own team. thank the officials and your opposition at the end of the match whatever the result. cricket is an game that encourages leadership friendship and teamwork which brings together people from different nationalities cultures and religions especially when played within the spirit of cricket. lawthe players 1.1 number of players match is played between two sides each of eleven players one of whom shall be captain. by agreement match may be played between sides fewer than or more than eleven players but not more than eleven players may field at any time if during the match and for whatever reason side is reduced to fewer than the original number of nominated players the match shall continue as long as it is possible to do so under the laws or any agreements made before the toss. 1.2 nomination and replacement of players each captain shall nominate his her players in writing to one of the umpires before the toss. no player may be replaced after the nomination without the consent of the opposing captain. 1.3 captain 1.3.1 if at any time the captain is not available deputy shal act for him her. 1.3.2 if captain is not available to nominate the players then any person associated with that team may act as his her deputy to do so. see 12 1.3.3 at any time after the nomination of the players only nominated player can act as deputy in discharging the duties and responsibilities of the captain as stated in these laws including at the toss. see law 134 the toss . 1.4 responsibility of captains the captains are responsible at all times for ensuring that play is conducted within the spirit of cricket as well as within the laws see the preamble the spirit of cricket and lawfair and unfair play responsibility of captains . responsibility of captains most sports hand one player increased responsibility the captain but in few sports is the role of captain as important as it is in cricket and its importance is made clear throughout the laws. the captain should be encouraged to work with the umpires at all times to ensure the game is played within both the laws and the spirit of cricket. laws 1.4 and 41.1 charge the captain with making sure that play is conducted within the spirit of the game as set out in the preamble. so important is this responsibility that should there be any breach to law 42 players conduct the law specifically recommends that action against the offending player captain should be considered. should the umpires have any concerns that the spirit of cricket is not being observed together they should tell the captain of the side responsible for the offence to take action. number of players although the law states eleven players for each side it can be agreed for instance in an eight side tournament that team will be made up of more or fewer than eleven players. if more than eleven are in team the umpires must make sure that no more than eleven fielders are on the field of play at any one time. in that case it is not necessary that the same eleven players field throughout an innings. no minimum number of fielders is laid down. sometimes playing conditions for match will state that minimum number must be present for play to take place. if that is not the case umpires must sensible judgment on whether to allow play with lower number of fielders. they should certainly not allow the start of play to be held up because some members of the fielding side have not arrived. they should also make sure that the game continues as far as possible if several players are removed from the game under law 42. law 42 is designed to prevent games being called off because of bad player behaviour and it should therefore whenever possible not lead to games being stopped because there are too few players left on the field. nomination of players before the toss each side must give written list of its players to one of the umpires. the list must contain no more than the agreed number of players in each side though unnecessary in law some competitions also require 12th man to be nominated . once the nominations have been made the list may not then be changed not even to add new name to an incomplete list without the consent of the opposing captain. the umpires may however allow see law 24.1 substitute to act for nominated player in the fielding side. there is sometimes confusion regarding the difference on the list. the replacement player can take full part in the match. his her captain can ask him her to bat bowl keep wicket or field. should an opposition captain consent to replacement player such consent is not conditional on who the replacement is that decision remains with the captain between substitutes and replacements. replacement player is someone who replaces one of the nominated players and whose name replaces that other player name of the player being replaced. law 24 will the detail about substitutes the point here is that the substitute whose presence on the field of play is subject to consent from the umpires is just substitute fielder who may not bat or bowl and would need special permission from the umpires to act as wicket keeper. this law is the first of many where playing conditions in some high profile games are different to the laws. in the professional game in some countries for replacement players may be allowed without seeking the opposing captain permission to cover for international call ups. however umpires in the recreational game should ignore these and act according to the laws unless there are specific playing conditions which say otherwise. the captain team has to have nominated captain. there are several places in the laws that apply directly to that person. sometimes the designated captain is not available possibly he she is late arriving or out of the game injured. that doesn mean the umpire should not continue to carry out the game within the laws. the umpires must insist that someone acts as deputy for the captain. one thing captain is meant to do is to nominate the players before the toss. however if the captain is not present for any reason someone else associated with that team although not necessarily nominated player must do the nomination however after the nomination and for the toss anyone acting as deputy for the captain must be nominated player field technique umpires must make sure that both teams are nominated in writing before the toss. they should not wait until the 15 minute deadline is reached but should be proactive together to discover who the captains are and whether both are present. if one is not they can then discuss with that team the appointment of deputy. if the captain arrives in time no harm is done. if he she does not then the deputy is ready to act and can submit the list in time before the toss. it is helpful to ensure that copies of the two lists are available to the scorers. before play is called the umpires should check the number of fielders on the field of play. they will not allow more than eleven. if there are fewer than the number nominated and or fewer than the number agreed for the teams they should find out the reason for this discrepancy. if they have not already been told they should check with the fielding captain. it may involve the absence or late arrival of player. this will have to be dealt with as described in law 24. lawthe umpires 2.1 appointment and attendance before the match two umpires shall be appointed one for each end to control the match as required by the laws with absolute impartiality. the umpires shall be present on the ground and report to the of the ground at least 45 minutes before the scheduled start of each day play. 2.2 change of umpire an umpire shall not be changed during the match other than in circumstances unless he she is injured or ill. if there has to be change of umpire the replacement shall act only as the striker end umpire unless the captains agree that the replacement should take full responsibility as an umpire. 2.3 consultation with captains before the toss the umpires shall . 2.3.1 meet with the captains the umpires shall determine . 2.3.11 the balls to be used during the match. see lawthe ball . 2.3.12 the hours of play and the times and durations of any agreed intervals in match of one day duration no specific time need be agreed for the tea interval. it may be agreed instead to take this interval between innings. see law 11 intervals . 2.3.13 which clock or watch and back up time piece to be used during the match . 2.3.14 the boundary of the field of play and allowances for boundaries including whether any obstacle within the field of play is to be regarded as boundary. see law 19 boundaries . 2.3.15 the use of covers. see law 10 covering the pitch . 2.3.16 any special conditions of play affecting the conduct of the match. 2.3.2 inform the scorers of agreements in 2.3.1.2 2.3.1.3 2.3.1.4 and 2.3.1.6. 2.4 the wickets creases and boundaries before the toss and during the match the umpire shall satisfy themselves that 2.4.1 the wickets are properly pitched see lawthe wickets . 2.4.2 the creases are correctly marked see lawthe creases . 2.4.3 the boundary of the field of play complies with the requirements of laws 19.1 determining the boundary of the field of play 19.2 identifying and marking the boundary and 193 restoring the boundary . 2.5 conduct of the match implements and equipment before the toss and during the match the umpires shall satisfy themselves that 2.5.1 the conduct of the match is strictly in accordance with the laws. 2.5.2 the implements used in the match conform to the following 2.521 lawthe ball . 25.22 visible requirements of lawthe bat and appendix 2.5.23 either laws 8.2 size of stumps and 8.3 the bails or if applicable. law 8.4 junior cricket . 2.5.3 no player uses equipment other than that permitted see appendix a2 note particularly therein the interpretation of protective helmet. 2.5.4 the wicket keeper gloves comply with the requirements of law 27.2 gloves . 2.6 fair and unfair play the umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. 2.7 fitness for play 2.7.1 it is solely for the umpires together to decide whether weather conditions of ground weather or light or circumstances mean that it would be dangerous or unreasonable for play to take place conditions shall not be regarded as the dangerous or unreasonable merely because they are not ideal. the fact that the grass and the ball are wet does not warrant the ground conditions being regarded as unreasonable or dangerous 2.7.2 conditions shall be regarded as dangerous if there is actual and foreseeable risk to the safety of any player or umpire 2.7.3 conditions shall be regarded as unreasonable if although posing no risk to safety it would not be sensible for play to proceed. 2.7.4 if the umpires consider the ground is so wet or slippery as to deprive the bowler of reasonable foothold the fielders of the power of free movement or the batsmen of the ability to play their strokes or to run between the wickets then these conditions shall be regarded as so bad that it would be dangerous and unreasonable for play to take place 2.8 suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable circumstances 2.8.1 all references to ground include the pitch see law 6.1 area of pitch 2.8.2 the umpires shall immediately suspend play or not allow play to start or to recommence if either umpire considers that the conditions of ground weather or light or any other circumstances are either dangerous or unreasonable 2.8.3 when there is suspension of play it is the responsibility of the umpires to monitor conditions. they shall make inspections as often as appropriate. unaccompanied by any players or officials. immediately the umpires together agree that the conditions are no longer dangerous or unreasonable they shall call upon the players to resume play. 2.9 position of umpires the umpires shall stand where they can best see any act upon which their decision may be required. subject to this over riding consideration the bowler end umpire shall stand in position so as not to interfere with either the bowler run up or the striker view. the striker end umpire may elect to stand on the off side instead of the on side of the pitch provided he she informs the captain of the fielding side the striker and the other umpire 2.10 umpires changing ends the umpires shall change ends after each side has had one completed innings. see law 13.3 completed innings 2.11 disagreement and dispute where there is disagreement or dispute about any matter the umpires together shall make the final decision. see also law 31.6 consultation by umpires . 2.12 umpire decision an umpire may alter any decision provided that such alteration is made promptly. this apart an umpire decision once made is final. 2.13 signals 2.13.1 the following code of signals shall be used by umpires 2.13.1.1 signals made while the ball is in play. dead ball by crossing and re crossing the wrists below the waist. no ball by one arm horizontally. out by raising an index finger above the head. if not out the umpire shall call not out. wide by both arms horizontally. 2.13.1.2 when the ball is dead the bowler end umpire shall repeat the signals in 2.13.1.1 with the of the signal for out to the scorers. 2.13.1.3 the signals listed below shall be made to the scorers only when the ball is dead. boundaryby waving an arm from side to side finishing with the arm across the chest boundaryby raising both arms above the head bye by raising an open hand above the head. commencement of last hour by pointing to raised wrist with the other hand. five penalty runs awarded to the batting side by repeated tapping of one shoulder with the opposite hand. five penalty runs awarded to the fielding side by placing one hand on the opposite shoulder. leg bye by touching raised knee with the hand. new ball by holding the ball above the head. revoke last signal by touching both shoulders each with the opposite hand short run by bending one arm upwards and touching the nearer shoulder with the tips of the fingers. the following signals are for levelsandof the player conduct offences. each signal has two parts both of which should be acknowledged separately by the scorers. levelconduct partby putting one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raising it and lowering it. partby raising both hands all fingers spread to shoulder height palms facing towards the scorers. levelconduct partby putting one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raising it and lowering it. partby raising an index finger held at shoulder height to the side of the body. 2.13.1.4 all the signals in 2.13.13 are to be made by the bowler end umpire that for short run which is to be signalled by the umpire at the end where short running occurs. however the bowler end umpire shall be responsible both for the final signal of short run to the scorers and if more than one run is short for informing them as to the number of runs to be recorded. 2.13.2 the umpire shall wait until each signal to the scorers has been separately acknowledged by scorer before allowing play to proceed. if several signals are to be used they should be given in the order that the events occurred. 2.14 informing the umpires throughout the laws wherever the umpires are to receive information from captains or other players it will be sufficient for one umpire to be so informed and for him her to inform the other umpire. 2.15 correctness of scores consultation between umpires and scorers on doubtful points is essential. the umpires shall throughout the match satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the number of runs scored the wickets that have fallen and where appropriate the number of overs bowled they shall agree these with the scorers at least at every interval other than drinks interval and at the conclusion of the match see laws 3.2 correctness of scores 16.8 correctness of result and 16.10 result not to be changed . appointment and attendance an umpire may have little or no involvement with either of the teams or may have been appointed by the captain of one of them. in some recreational cricket they may even be player as well as an umpire. whatever the situation this law makes it clear that both umpires must act completely fairly treating both teams equally. umpires have many duties all vital for the match to run smoothly which they are required to carry out before play begins. the law insists that umpires arrive at least 45 minutes before the scheduled start although it must be noted that this is minimum many umpires will want to arrive long before that. change of umpire it should be rare for an umpire to be changed. if however he she has become ill or injured or there is another reason for change it is permitted. the convention has always been for the other umpire to decide on replacement although this is not necessary under the laws. the replacement will normally be limited to standing at the striker end every over. he she can however take full part as an umpire if both captains agree to his her doing so. the remaining originally appointed umpire may need to this to the captains. duties before the toss before the toss the umpires must meet with the captains and determine number of things. special regulations and playing conditions affecting the match will include competition rules such as limit on the number of overs any one bowler can deliver limitations of time or number of overs for each innings and similar regulations. there may be special conditions specific to that particular ground. whether standard or unusual all must know and understand them particularly the umpires and scorers matters that have to be determined on the day should where possible be settled in agreement with both captains and the umpires. if that is not possible then it is for the umpires to have the final say. as some of the items listed in law 2.3 will have been agreed before the day of the match determining them will mostly be checking between umpires and captains that they all have the same understanding as to the details involved. some may seem obvious but it is still important to go through the process. it is essential that everyone knows what is so that embarrassing misunderstandings do not happen later during the game. the hours of play will cover the number of days for the match as well as the times for start of play on each day and for close of play on each day. they are not to be confused with times and durations of intervals. those are temporary breaks in play during the day. the duration of intervals are to be determined at this point though there are instances to be addressed in law 11 when the timings of those intervals may be changed. clearly all these times are essential information for the scorers. the actual balls to be used should be available for captains to inspect but it is for the umpires to determine which should be used. law 4.2 specifies that having been determined the balls are to be given to the umpires and are to remain under their control from that point onwards. in most one day recreational cricket there will be only one ball for each innings. the scorers need to know if more than one is to be available and if so when new one can be taken. they do not need to know which actual balls are to be used. the determination of boundaries and allowances for them must not be forgotten and care must be taken to ensure they are agreed. often it will be assumed that these will be the standardand 6. often this will be true but everyone needs to know that this is the case and if not if there are any local customs that will change them this is covered in more detail in law 19 but it is worth including here because an umpire must remember to make sure everyone players captains and scorers know all the relevant details before play begins. an obstacle within the field of play is vague description this is not accidental. include tree an immovable roller concrete strip for the run up to practice net etc. it is for the umpires to decide whether such an object is to count as boundary or not. many grounds will have local customs and where possible these should be observed. the players through their captains need to know as do the scorers. moveable obstacles such as supporters or animals running onto the field are dealt with by the umpires as and when they enter the field and or make contact with the ball. that is covered in more detail under law 19. accurate time keeping plays an important role at several stages in the match. visible working pavilion clock is the most suitable time piece. the provision of back up time piece is necessary precaution against the failure of the one agreed as the master. it is usual for one of the umpires watches to be the back up although this may need to be the primary time piece if there is not public easily readable one. in that case the other umpire watch would serve as back up. it is good practice for the umpires to make sure the times on their watches are the same before the start of play. crease markings wickets implements before the pre match meeting with the captains umpires will need to make complete inspection of the field of play. this must include the boundaries and how they are marked and what obstacles there are which may have to be designated as boundaries. it is also essential that before the game umpires check that the creases are correctly marked and the wickets correctly pitched. this will include seeing that stumps and bails are of the correct size. left check that your colleague at the far end has the stumps upright and equally spaced. he she can do the same for you. right check from the side as well as from in front to make sure the sumps are properly aligned while play is in progress the umpires are responsible for seeing that the players use only the equipment that is allowed and that balls bats and wicketkeepers were all meet the stipulations outlined in the laws. these are all covered elsewhere in the laws and in the appendices and umpires need to be aware of all of them items such as bat gauge and ball gauge can be carried onto the field but without detailed knowledge of what equipment should look like no umpire would know when to use thee implements. fair and unfair play fair and unfair play are discussed in much greater details the preamble laws41 and 42. however law 2.6 is not to be overlooked as it emphasises that the umpires have the responsibility of judging whether any action is fair or not. it is stated clearly that they are the sole judges of fair and unfair play. specific acts of unfair play are mentioned in number of laws and actions are laid out for the umpires to follow in those cases. there may however be occasions when one umpire sees something which he she considers unfair which is not specifically covered in the laws. in that situation the umpire must intervene to stop play by calling and signalling dead ball and then immediately inform his her colleague of the reason for this action. the umpire who has seen it may also want clarification from his her colleague if they too have seen the incident. the bowler end umpire will then carry out the procedure of law 41.2 and together the umpires will report the incident after the match. fitness of ground weather and light it used to be the case that if conditions were not very good but not dangerous the batting side could be offered the light that is the batsmen at the wicket would decide whether or not play should continue. that was removed from the laws in 2010 and it is crucial to remember that decisions on whether conditions are fit for play are solely down to the umpires whatever certain players may think. if either umpire considers that conditions are dangerous or unreasonable then play will not start will be suspended or will not restart. the single most important consideration is the safety of those on the field of play players and umpires alike. the umpires are the only judges of whether the conditions of the ground underfoot of the weather overhead or of the surrounding light is safe for play to take place. it is not to be deemed dangerous merely because the weather is dull and overcast. if however the light is so poor that players or umpires are unable to pick up soon enough the flight of ball coming towards them then that is dangerous. this can be made worse by dark background of for trees that must be taken into account. equally if it is bit wet and it is necessary to dry the ball fairly often it is not dangerous. if the ground is so wet and soft that players cannot maintain reasonable foothold when bowling. when playing the ball when running between wickets or when fielding the ball then that is dangerous. it may be that if rain has interrupted play it is possible to resume whilst there is still some drizzle. so long as the ground is safe particularly the bowler run ups and the pitch itself and reasonable to play on and the continued rainfall is unlikely to cause significant damage to the pitch play could well restart. umpires must not allow play to take place in dangerous conditions whatever the wishes of the captains may be. the state of the game should never be consideration. if the conditions are dangerous they are dangerous however close result is. if they are not dangerous then play should continue. whilst not suspending play unless conditions require it the umpires must if in doubt err on the side of caution and suspend play earlier rather than later. there could be other situations where it would be dangerous for play to take place such as large swarm of bees invading the field of play. similarly it may be unreasonable but not dangerous for play to take place for waiting for paramedics to come to treat player who has collapsed on the field of play. the same considerations apply to such situations as to ground weather and light. if conditions are dangerous or unreasonable umpires must suspend play. the umpires first duty in this respect is to check the conditions before the day play. although the selection and preparation of the pitch before the toss is entirely matter for the ground authority umpires have authority to judge at any time even before the toss the fitness of conditions and must do so. after the toss they take sole responsibility for the ground and conditions. when play is to resume after an interval or interruption again both the umpires must agree that conditions are safe for this to happen. almost everywhere in the laws the umpires are encouraged indeed required to discuss matters between them and reach an agreement more on this to follow in law 2.11 and law 31.6 . where possible it is that the umpires will agree on whether play should take place and every step should be taken to ensure that this is the case. however if there is disagreement between the two umpires then one umpire deciding that it is unreasonable or dangerous to play is enough to stop the game or prevent it from starting. once the umpires have decided that play is not to take place they must keep watch on conditions to see if they improve. the state of the game may influence the teams differently about wanting to start play. the umpires must not take that into consideration. they will carry out inspections at suitable intervals concerned only with whether conditions are safe for play and without any player or team official joining them. once the umpires agree between themselves that conditions are no longer dangerous play is to resume regardless of the wishes of the players. again both umpires must agree that the conditions are safe and reasonable for play to resume position of umpires the ability to see the action that is taking place is always the most important consideration for an umpire. if bowler requests that an umpire stands closer to or further from the stumps the umpire should agree only as far as is possible without making it impossible for the umpire to do his her own job properly and make sure the new position is still safe. where the umpire stands may vary for different types of bowlers. many umpires will want to stand closer to the stumps for slower bowlers and slightly further back for faster ones. an umpire position should allow him her to see the popping crease clearly and then adjust to watching the batsman without movement of the head. only the umpire eyes should move as they go from watching the bowler foot to picking up the flight of the ball. if bowler in his her follow through runs in front of the umpire he she may or may not be guilty of breaching various laws more pertinently he she will certainly block the umpire view. the umpire must not move to get better view keeping the head still is vital for judging any decision and an umpire who is not in line with the stumps will be not much better placed to judge an lbw appeal than one who has bowler in the way. if it is not possible to judge lbw decisions as result of his her view being blocked then the bowler should be informed and decision cannot be answered with anything other than not out. it is bowler right to follow through in front of the umpire so long as they do not enter the protected area this is unlikely to be possible for fast bowler but spinner follow through may well be short enough to allow them to fairly block the umpire view however most will prefer to move out of an umpire way once they realise it is likely to cost them the chance of wicket. the same applies to the umpire standing at the striker end when fielder crosses his her path. however it will usually be possible for the striker end umpire to move slightly to one side or the other and still be able to see everything necessary. when the batsmen are running the bowler end umpire must move round quickly to get side on view of the creases of the putting down of the wicket and if necessary of the crossing or otherwise of the batsman. he she needs to be as far from the wicket as possible in the time allowed. the umpire must not get in the fielders way nor in the way of the throw in not only to avoid being hit but to make sure the fielding side are not disadvantaged. most umpires move to the same side as the ball which tends to allow for better view of the stumps being broken. however there are if the ball is hit down the ground or to point in line with the popping crease at the non striker end it will be better to be on the other side so as to avoid being hit by throw. if an umpire places him herself between the ball and the stumps he she may possibly obstruct or impede fielder attempt to field the ball or have clear throw at the wicket. the decision on which side to move is personal one and umpires will develop their own preference with . what is key is to always remain aware of where the ball is and simultaneously know when the batsman is about to touch down at the non striker end. standing side on with quick glances back and forth is generally the best way to be aware of both of these. when batsman who has runner is on strike the bowler end umpire will always move to the same side as the striker end umpire so as to avoid getting in the way of the runner and to be able to see where he she is. the umpire at the striker end should stand on the popping crease and can be any distance from the wicket but usually between 20 and 30 yards is suitable close enough to see everything necessary but far enough away from the bat to be safe and not interfere with play. the umpire should generally be at square leg although the position of fielders the sun or runner may require the umpire to move to the off side. if the two batsmen are left and right handed it may require moving often the umpire should anticipate this and if the batsmen have changed ends be ready to move quickly and immediately so as not to hold up the game. if the bowler has an short run up likely to be spinner and the batsmen are taking regular singles then it may be better for the striker end umpire to stay one side rather than switching every ball so long as the umpire can still see all that is necessary. umpires changing ends umpires will not change ends during one innings match. they will change ends only when both sides have had one completed innings see law 13 . umpires consulting not only is it allowed to ask colleague for help the law insists that umpires should consult in number of situations. for it may be that the bowler end umpire cannot see how the wicket was broken because the striker has remained in front of it completely blocking the wicket from view. the striker end umpire may be able to supply this information. consulting is not weakness on the part of an umpire it is essential to ensure that decisions are made only on the most accurate and complete evidence available. it is sometimes assumed that there are some matters that umpires can consult on and others which they may not. this is not the case if colleague is in better position to see on any decision consultation is encouraged on any point of fact. consulting when unnecessary does little good. an umpire who feels the need to talk to their colleague about decision they should be able to make on their own will lose the players confidence. however there are many occasions where it is necessary and important to consult. there are two main ways to consult obviously and subtly. the obvious consultation of two umpires coming together to discuss decision has the advantage of being clear to players. the decision has then obviously been taken based on all the possible information and is easier to sell to the players. however sometimes this will not be necessary. an effective consultation will be single question requiring the response of either yes or no this may simply be achieved by look or nod. eye contact between the umpires after every ball will allow consultation often unseen by players or spectators. sometimes an obvious mime for to ask if the ball has carried may also be necessary. signals may be pre arranged between the umpires before the game for subtle consultation to work best. changing decision and revoking call at umpire may realise that he she has made mistake. perhaps he she gave batsman out caught not aware that the other umpire had called no ball. perhaps the mistake is his her own. there may be embarrassment but there is no disgrace in admitting it and changing the decision as allowed in law 2.12. it is much better than allowing poor decision to stand. the umpire will be more respected for it than for sticking to decision he she knows to be wrong. the reversal of decision must be made promptly and certainly before any progress at all with the game. once an umpire has made decision and has not altered it that decision will stand in all circumstances. it should be noted that this applies to all decisions the call of dead ball playing regulations at the highest levels for challenging umpires decisions known as udrs do not apply in law the changing of an umpire decision is separate in law from captain withdrawing an appeal law 31.8 which requires the umpire permission but is not the umpire decision. signals to scorers these are fully in law and illustrated on pages 61 66. signals should be made as stated. they are the means by which the umpire informs the scorers of vital facts about the progress of play. they must be entirely clear without personal variations or flourishes. the law also lays down when signals are to be made four of the signals should be made when the ball is in play and then three of these are repeated when the ball becomes dead all other signals are simply made once the ball is dead. initial signals made while the ball is in play out no ball wide ball and dead ball are merely to inform the players they are all with the of out to be accompanied by call to further inform the players. video there is call alongside signal this should be loud and clear it does not need to be shouted for the scorers to hear but should at least be audible to any fielder in the in field where apart from the signal for out all of these initial signals to be repeated to the scorers by the bowlers end umpire when the ball is dead. the other signals are not made at all until the ball is dead. they are all to be made by the bowlers end umpire. with the one of short run. this is not made until the ball is dead but may be by either umpire and is accompanied by call. it will depend on the end or ends at which short running happened although the bowler end umpire will then repeat it for the scorers. if both umpires have seen short run they must confer to see whether two separate runs were short or whether the short running was in one and the same run. if more than one run is short the bowler end umpire should as well as repeating the signal tell the scorers the actual number of runs scored. if there are multiple signals required they should be made in the order the action occurred. for no ball that goes for four leg byes was no ball first then struck the batsman person then crossed the boundary. the umpire should signal them in that order no ball leg byes boundary four. separate acknowledgements for each signal by at least one scorer are essential if the umpire is to be satisfied that the information has been received in full. it should also be noted that when making the signal for levelor levelbreach of conduct under law 42 the umpire should wait for acknowledgement between partand part 2. dead ball cross and re cross the wrists below the waist. no ball one arm horizontally. out raise an index finger above the head. wide both arms horizontally. boundary fourmove one arm back and forth as shown starting and ending with the arm across the chest. boundary si both arms above the head. bye raise an open hand above the head. commencement of last hour point to raised wrist with the other hand. the wrist should be well away from the body to be visible to the scorers. five penalty runs to the batting side tap one shoulder with the opposite hand several times. the patting movement must be to make it clear turning side on to the scorers will help this. five penalty runs to the fielding side place one hand on the opposite shoulder. the hand remains on the shoulder. leg bye raise knee and touch it with the hand. this is made side on to the scorers so that they can clearly see it. new ball the ball is held above the head so it can be clearly seen. revoke last signal touch both shoulders with the opposite hand. short run touch shoulder with the tips of the fingers of the same hand by bending that arm upwards. leveloffence first put one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raise and lower it as shown. then raise both hands with fingers spread at shoulder height. leveloffence first put one arm out to the side of the body and repeatedly raise and lower it as shown. then raise an index finger at shoulder height to the side of the body. correctness of scores the umpires responsibility is to satisfy themselves throughout the game that the score is correct. the law requires that they check with the scorers at intervals and any opportunity presented by interruptions in play. they do not however need to keep score that is the job of the scorers. some umpires will choose to keep score themselves perhaps using mechanical counter and then make note at the end of every over. however this is not necessary. at different levels of the game it will be more or less important usually depending on how the scorers are. an umpire who knows that both scorers are and accurate will not need to keep score almost at all. in the lower levels of the recreational game where members of the batting team are taking turns to score the umpires may well need to keep fuller record. the minimum at all levels is for umpires to make note of anything that the scorers may have missed short run for or the correct number of runs in the case of an overthrow and then consult the scorers at the ne suitable break in play. however the umpires must check with each other at the first opportunity if either of them thinks the scoreboard is incorrect. if they suspect that it may not be right and it is not put right in the ne over or so the problem must be sorted out. as far as is possible play should not be held up to do so although sometimes it may be necessary for in close game the scores will need to be verified before the last over of match. aside from this the fall of wicket or bowling change may provide the necessary pause in play. what is critical is for the umpires to make note of when the score appeared to be wrong and by how many runs. at the end of each innings and of course at the end of the match the umpires and scorers must agree as to the final scores wickets and if relevant overs. if there is any discrepancy this must be sorted out between the umpires and scorers. if agreement cannot be reached it is the umpires who decide what is to be recorded. for more on what to do if there has been mistake which affects the result see law 16.9. lawthe scorers 3.1 appointment of scorers two scorers shall be appointed to record all runs scored all wickets taken and where appropriate number of overs bowled. 3.2 correctness of scores the scorers shall frequently check to ensure that the records agree. they shall agree with the umpires at least at every interval other than drinks intervals and at the conclusion of the match the runs scored the wickets that have fallen and where appropriate the number of overs bowled. see law 2.15 correctness of scores . 3.3 acknowledging signals the scorers shall accept all instructions and signals given to them by the umpires and shall immediately acknowledge each separate signal. there should be no difficulty in understanding this law. as with umpires there needs to be two scorers. they should constantly check with each other that their records agree normally at least at the end of each over. just as it is important that umpires give them clear signals it is important that they acknowledge those signals each separately. as has been mentioned elsewhere for umpires and scorers to work effectively together they must meet before play. the umpires must be sure of the position of scorers if they are sitting outside there is possibility that they may move if light rain begins. the umpires must know where they will go if that happens. as well as the checks laid down for each interval drinks the scorers should take the earliest opportunity to clarify with the umpires any doubtful points. for that batsman has been dismissed will be obvious. the method of dismissal may not be. umpire may want to agree some unofficial signals with the score to help them. in particular good practice would be to arrange signal between the scorers and umpires to confirm that the match is completed and that both scorers agree the result this would save the embarrassment of leaving the field and having to return under law 16.9. the scorers are all too often taken for granted or overlooked. while this law is very simple the art of scoring is not. that art is covered in far more detail in the scoring section of this publication. lawthe ball 4.1 weight and size the ball when new shall weigh not less than 55 ounces 155.9 . nor more than 5.75 ounces 163g and shall measure not less than 8.81 in 22.4 cm nor more thanin 22.9 cm in circumference. 4.2 approval and control of balls 4.2.1 all balls to be used in the match having been determined by the umpires shall be in the possession of the umpires before the toss and shall remain under their control throughout the match. 4.2.2 the umpire shall take possession of the ball in use at the fall of each wicket at the start of any interval and at any interruption of play. 4.3 new ball unless an agreement to the contrary has been made before the match either captain may demand new ball at the start of each innings. 4.4 new ball in match of more than one day duration in match of more than one day duration the captain of the fielding side may demand new ball when the number of overs any part overs bowled with the old one is equal to or greater than 80 overs the umpire shall inform the other umpire and indicate to the batsmen and the scorers whenever new ball is taken into play. 4.5 ball lost or becoming unfit for play if during play the ball cannot be found or recovered or the umpires agree that it has become unfit for play through normal use the umpires shall replace it with ball which has had wear comparable with that which the previous ball had received before the need for its replacement. when the ball is replaced the umpire sha inform the batsmen and the fielding captain. 4.6 specifications the specifications as described in 4.1 shall apply to men cricket only. the following specifications shall apply to 4.6.1 women cricket weight from 4.94 ounces 140 to 5.31 ounces 151g circumference from 8.25 in 21.0 cm to 8.88 in 22.5 cm 4.6.2 junior cricket under 13 weight from 469 ounces 133 to 5.06 ounces 144 circumference from 8.06 in 20.5 cm to 8.69 in 22.0 cm this law is concerned with two major areas the measurements of the balls used and the control of them during the match. law 4.1 gives very specific regulations on the size and weight of the ball while 4.6 provides the same information for women and junior cricket. at higher level matches. ball gauges are often used to check the size of balls. gauges consist of two rings. one prevents too large ball from passing through the other will not prevent one that is too small from going through. at lower levels umpires without such devices may have to trust the manufacturers to produce balls conforming to law. fortunately this is usually the case although it is not ideal and where possible umpires should perform their own check. approval and control before the match umpires must decide which type and how many balls are to be used and if relevant make sure they know when new ball may be taken. it is normal in one day match for there to be new ball for each side innings. this is often set out in playing conditions for the match but is otherwise not required in law. it may be agreed that the same ball will be used in both innings. unless there is such an agreement however if either captain asks for new ball at the start of an innings the other captain cannot prevent this. before the match the umpires must check as far as they can that the balls to be used are within the law. most importantly the umpires must then take possession of these. ideally there should also be supply of used balls. in case the ball in use has to be replaced at any time. the relevant playing conditions will usually specify that these should be the same colour and brand as the ball in use. these should also be determined and then kept by the umpires though for convenience they are often left with the scorers. during play the umpire must take possession of the ball at the fall of every wicket and at every interval or interruption. it should be the umpire who will be at the end from which the ne delivery will be bowled. these should not be the only occasions when an umpire looks at the ball. law 41.3.1 instructs that they should make frequent and irregular inspections of the ball. the fact that irregular inspections are specified should help to prevent players from tampering with the ball. frequent inspections mean that umpires will know how much wear ball has received if it has to be replaced with one of similar wear. it is also sensible to check the ball after boundary has been scored where the ball has struck hard object outside the boundary any damage to it can be noted then and its cause will thus be obvious. replacing the ball in use balls can often be lost at any level of the game particularly on smaller grounds. it can become unfit for play if it loses its shape becomes too wet to use or some mishap damages the seam or the surface. it will be the umpires jointly who decide independently of the players that the ball is unfit for play. the umpires will together choose from those available replacement ball. the condition of the replacement should be as near as possible to the condition of the original ball before it was lost or became unfit. if however the lost or unfit ball is wet they will replace it with dry one of similar wear. if the ball is lost or the damage is accidental no action is taken against any players. however if the umpires consider that the condition of the ball has been deliberately if ball becomes damaged accidentally as this one has been the umpires must replace it but need not take any action against either team. and unfairly changed it is dealt with under law 41.3. the non offending captain will then be able to choose whether the ball is replaced or not. should only newer ball be available as replacement. umpires should not scuff it up or bounce it to attempt to make it similar condition to the original. they should simply choose the most suitable replacement available and use that replacement ball in the condition it is in. in longer games new ball is available after 80 overs. the new ball does not have to be taken after 80 overs the fielding captain may wait longer nor does it have to be taken at the start of an over. however subsequent new ball will only be available 80 full overs after the previous one was taken that means that another new ball will not necessarily be available after 160 overs. it will be later if the second new ball taking was delayed. for if side bowled 80.3 overs before they took the 2nd new ball the 3rd new ball would not be available until 161 complete overs had been bowled. when ball is changed the fielding captain and the batsmen must be informed. when new ball is taken the same people must be informed with the addition of the scorers. field technique it can be useful for each umpire to carry used spare ball on the field particularly at ground where balls are likely to be lost. if there are two that have received different wear it is more likely to be possible to match the condition of the ball in use if it has to be replaced. it will certainly save time if ball can be replaced without the umpires having to go off the field. at higher levels where there may be an official able to bring the spare balls out to the pitch umpires will be less likely to carry spares with them. balls should not be changed unnecessarily. the ball can move in and out of shape early in the innings. umpires should be sure to check it regularly but not necessarily replace it at the first sign of trouble it may be back to normal few balls later. it is also worth being aware that some players likely to be bowlers may ask for ball to be changed because they feel it will benefit them tactically. umpires must not be swayed by these requests. the ball should be changed if it is not fit for play not because the fielding side feel it isn swinging here use of the ball rings pictured below may prove useful. in law the ball only needs to pass through the gauge when new but some umpires will find it helpful to demonstrate that ball is either in or out of shape through use of gauge. this provides simple measureable answer to whether the ball is out of shape and cannot be debated. that said the law does not require the umpire to change the ball simply because it does not fit through the gauge it is for the umpires to their best judgment. standard ball gauge. this has two holes one which the ball should be able to pass through and one which it should not be able to pass through. note that by law the ball only has to fit through ball gauge when new. once the umpires decide ball is no longer fit for use they must treat any subsequent balls including those in other innings in the same way it must be the same for both sides in matches of more than one day in which new ball is to be taken into use at some point it will be prudent for one umpire to take new ball on to the field at the start of session in which the new ball becomes due. both umpires should also carry with them cloth for drying in case the ball should get wet. see also law 41.3.2. lawthe bat 5.1 the bat 5.1.1 the bat consists of two parts handle and blade . 5.1.2 the basic requirements and measurements of the bat are set out in this law with detailed specifications in appendix . 5.2 the handle 5.2.1 the handle is to be made principally of cane and or wood. 5.2.2 the part of the handle that is wholly outside the blade is defined to be the upper portion of the handle it is straight shaft for holding the bat. 5.2.3 the upper portion of the handle may be covered with grip as defined in appendix .22. 5.3 the blade 5.3.1 the blade comprises the whole of the bat apart from the handle as defined 5.2 and in appendix b3. 5.3.2 the blade shall consist solely of wood. 5.3.3 all bats may have commercial identifications on the blade. the size of which must comply with the relevant specification in appendix 6. 5.4 protection and repair subject to the specifications in appendix .4 and providing 55 is not contravened 5.4.1 solely for the purposes of either protection from surface damage to the face. sides and shoulders of the blade or repair to the blade after surface damage material that is not rigid either at the time of its application to the blade or subsequently may be placed on these surfaces. 5.4.2 for repair of the blade after damage other than surface damage 5.4.2.1 solid material may be inserted into the blade. 5.4.2.2 the only material permitted for any insertion is wood with minimal essential adhesives 5.4.3 to prevent damage to the toe material may be placed on that part of the blade but shall not over any part of the face back or sides of the blade. 5.5 damage to the ball 5.5.1 for any part of the bat covered or uncovered the hardness of the constituent materials and the surface te thereof shall not be such that either or both could cause unacceptable damage to the ball. 5.5.2 any material placed on any part of the bat for whatever purpose shall similarly not be such that could cause unacceptable damage to the ball. 5.5.3 for the purpose of this law unacceptable dom any change that is greater than normal wear and tear caused by the ball striking the uncovered wooden surface of the blade. 5.6 contact with the ball in these laws 5.6.1 reference to the bat shall imply that the bat is held in the batsman hand or glove worn on his her hand unless stated otherwise. 5.6.2 contact between the ball and any of 5.6.2.1 to5.6.2.4 . 5.6.2.1 the bat itself . 5.6.2.2 the batsman hand holding the bat. 5.6.2.3 any part of glove worn on the batsman hand holding the bat. 5.6.2.4 any additional materials permitted under 54 shall be regarded as the ball striking or touching the bat or being struck by the bat. 5.7 bat size limits 5.7.1 the overall length of the bat when the lower portion of the handle is inserted shall not be more than 38 in 96.52 cm. 5.7.2 the blade of the bat shall not the following dimensions width 4.25in 10.8 cm depth 2.64in 6.7 cm edges 1.56in 4.0 cm. furthermore it should also be able to pass through bat gauge as described in appendix .8. 5.7.3 for bats of sizeand less the handle shall not 52 of the overall length of the bat. 5.7.4 the material permitted for covering the blade in 5.4.1 shall not 0.04 in 0.1 cm in thickness 5.7.6 the ma permitted thickness of protective material placed on the toe of the blade is 0.12 in 03 cm. 5.8 categories of bat 5.8.1 types band care bats conforming to 51 to 5.7 inclusive. 5.8.2 type bats may be used at any level of cricket. 5.8.3 the specifications for type bats are described in appendix .7 and are for use by junior players in junior cricket only. 5.8.4 bats of type . type . type and any other bats may be used only at or below levels determined by the governing body for cricket in the country concerned. 5.8.5 bats that do not quality for any of the four categories to are not recognised in the laws. everything about the cricket bat from its size and shape to the materials used has become more regulated in recent years. major changes were made in 2008 and then again in 2017 so that lawand appendix are now clear on what is and isn allowed. dimensions of the bat or compliance of the bat it is clearly impractical for the umpire on the field to check all the complex details of the bat for every player. bat manufacturers ought only to produce bats that meet the regulations however this cannot be assumed. bat more than 38 inches 96.52cm long is rarely if ever found. there have however been bats more than 4.25 inches 10.8cm wide even without any binding. bat should be measured if either umpire suspects it may be too wide but there is certainly no need to measure every bat brought to the crease. the size of the bat edges and the overall depth of bat. are now regulated. therefore if umpires suspect that bat looks too large they should not be afraid to check it using bat gauge. these are neither nor heavy and fit in an umpire pocket. player may plead ignorance and they are not to be penalised for having an improper bat by any on field sanction save for not being permitted to use that bat. nonetheless it is each player responsibility that their bat is within the limits and if it is not they simply may not use it. there is no specified sanction for using an illegal bat aside from being prevented from using it further however umpires should work with governing bodies to ensure player does not repeatedly attempt to get away with an illegal bat. this may mean providing report if umpire consider this is deliberate unfair action. the suggested method for using bat gauge the bat is held in one hand away from the body and in mid air while the other hand is used to pass the gauge along the blade length ensuring that the gauge is held square to the face of the bat. see also the diagram in appendix .8 when testing the legality of bat and its ability to pass through bat gauge the umpire should only apply minimal amount of force to get it through. the suggested testing method is for the bat to be held in one hand away from the body and in mid air . . not pressed against the ground or the body while the other hand is used to pass the gauge along the blade length ensuring that the gauge is held square to the face of the bat. the gauge measurements are such that bat with legitimate tape anti scuff covering on the blade should still be able to pass through it. other features umpires should also check as far as is practical if the blade is solely of wood and that any covering is not likely to damage the ball. types of bat in most non professional cricket any of the three types band will be allowed though cloth covered bats type may not be allowed at higher levels of the recreational game. the type of bat is not dependent on the quality of the willow rather it is the materials it is made of which define its type. this is in appendix . type bats which are allowed to be laminated cloth covered and or coloured as in appendix .7 are restricted to use by junior players in junior cricket where the particular regulations allow. if those bats are used the umpires should check that the material used to colour the bats does not cause unacceptable damage to the ball. bat or person in number of laws whether the ball struck the striker bat or his person is an important factor. law 5.6 together with the definitions in appendix make it clear that hand bare or wearing glove holding the bat is to be regarded as part of the bat. similarly the whole of glove worn on the hand equally counts as part of the bat as long as the hand is touching the bat. if glove is held rather than worn or the hand is not holding the bat then either will become part of the batsman person. to be holding the bat the batsman has to have some part of glove he she is wearing or his her bare hand in contact with the bat. appendix a2.6 and lawtaken together that the hand if it is touching the bat is to be considered as part of the bat. therefore if one hand is holding the bat and the other hand though not touching the bat directly is touching the hand holding the bat that hand is effectively touching the bat and so it also is to be considered as part of the bat. this does not apply to other parts of the batsman person. damage to the ball law 5.5 sets out what is considered unacceptable damage to the ball and states that bat must not cause this. that includes all parts of the bat. striker is perfectly permitted to use the back of the bat deliberately to play the ball. that means that there cannot be any material on the back of the bat which might cause unacceptable damage to the ball. lawthe pitch 6.1 area of pitch the pitch is rectangular area of the ground 22 yards 20.12 in length and 10 ft 305 in width is bounded at either end by the bowling creases and on either side by imaginary lines one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps each parallel to it andft 1.52 from it if the pitch is ne to an artificial pitch which is closer thanft 1.52 from the middle stumps the pitch on that side will only to the junction of the two surfaces. see laws 8.1 description width and pitching 8.4 junior cricket and 7.2 the bowling crease . 6.2 fitness of pitch for play the umpires shall be the sole judges of the fitness of the pitch for play. see laws 2.7 fitness for play and 2.8 suspension of play in dangerous or unreasonable conditions . 6.3 selection and preparation before the match the ground authority shall be responsible for the selection and preparation of the pitch. during the match the umpires shall control its use and maintenance. 6.4 changing the pitch the pitch shall not be changed during the match unless the umpires decide that it is dangerous or unreasonable for play to continue on it and then only with the consent of both captains. 6.5 non turf pitches in the event of non turf pitch being used the artificial surface shall conform to the following measurements length minimum of 58 ft 17.68 width minimum offt 1.83 see law 9.8 non turf pitches note that the area of ground defined in lawis the pitch. not the wicket. the wicket is the set of three stumps and two bails. in cricket jargon wicket is often mis used to mean the pitch such as it good batting wicket . umpires must be clear about the difference between them. the wicket is set of three wooden sticks with two bits of wood on top. the pitch is the closely specified piece of ground between the two wickets. measurements there is an diagram in appendix showing all the measurements and how they relate to the crease markings. these are the subject of law 7. it will not often be necessary for umpires to measure the length of the pitch. with the umpire will develop the ability to judge the length of the pitch without needing to measure. after few matches in the season markings on previously used pitches can be help. ir however it is thought that the length of the pitch may be incorrect proper measurement should be made. pacing it out is not proper measurement if there is enough doubt to measure then it should be done accurately. any errors should be corrected if possible before the start of the match. if it is not possible both captains should be made fully aware of the situation. note that in junior cricket law 8.4 allows governing bodies to determine the dimensions of stumps bails and the length of the pitch. non turf or artificial pitches compared to natural grass cricket surface artificial cricket pitches are low maintenance and are often found in areas where growing grass is challenging or the cost of maintaining good pitch is too high or there isn enough space for multiple pitches. where competitions allow use of non turf pitches umpires need to be familiar with variations to the relevant laws. the join between an artificial pitch and turf is unlikely to be perfectly flat and can cause seriously uneven bounce. therefore if an artificial strip is not the full 10 feet wide the edge of the artificial pitch is deemed to be where the artificial pitch meets the natural turf. similarly if turf pitch which is being used is ne to an artificial one and the artificial one is closer than five feet from middle stump the join is taken as the edge of the turf pitch. selection preparation and maintenance before the match selection and preparation of the pitch is entirely up to the ground authority. once the toss has been made however the umpires must control its use and maintenance. the ground staff will still carry out the mechanical tasks of mowing and rolling but the umpires are to supervise to make sure that this is done within the laws as set out in law 9. even though this responsibility does not pass to the umpires until the toss they should still inspect the pitch well before the match is to start to check both that it meets all the requirements of the law and that it is fit for play that is that it would not be unreasonable or dangerous for play to take place on it as discussed under law 2. changing the pitch during match this is not allowed unless the umpires pronounce the one in use to be unfit that is unreasonable or dangerous for play. even then the two captains must agree to continue the game on another pitch. it is unlikely that there will be another pitch properly prepared although on some grounds there may be an artificial pitch which can be used. if either or both captains decide that they do not wish to use another pitch this would not be considered refusal to play. the options then would be either that the match is abandoned or that it is decided to wait in the hope that conditions will improve sufficiently for play to restart on the original pitch. lawthe creases 7.1 the creases the positions of bowling crease popping crease and two return creases shall be marked by white lines. as set out in 7.2 7.3 and 7.4 at each end of the pitch. see appendix . 7.2 the bowling crease the bowling crease which is the back edge of the crease marking is the line that marks the end of the pitch as in law 6.1 area of pitch. it shall beftin 2.64 in length. 7.3 the popping crease the popping crease which is the back edge of the crease marking shall be in front of and parallel to the bowling crease and shall beft 1.22 from it the popping crease shall be marked to minimum of1.83 on either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps and shall be considered to be unlimited in length. 7.4 the return creases the return creases which are the inside edges of the crease markings shall be at right angles to the popping crease at distance offtin 132 either side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps each return crease shall be marked from the popping crease to minimum offt 244 behind it and shall be considered to be unlimited in length. the umpires should always check the crease markings before the pre match conference. even groundsmen have been known to make occasional errors both in measurement and in alignment. as with the pitch itself and the wickets umpires will with become better able to judge visually if the creases are not correct. the most frequent errors are the return creases not being marked to their fullfeet back from the popping crease and the wickets not being centred between the return creases. any mistakes should be corrected if possible before the match starts. if it is not possible then the captains must be made fully aware of the difficulty. often groundsmen will add marks for the position of the protected area at the edge of the pitch and either side of the stumps. whilst these marks are not required by the laws if they are present it is important to check that they are accurate. they can help umpires in assessing both that the bowler follow through does not encroach under law 4113 and that the striker does not take his guard within or close to the protected area as under laws 41.14 and 41.15. the same is true of wide guidelines which are often painted on pitches and can be useful in limited overs cricket. umpires may choose to use or ignore these marks but if they are going to use them they must first be sure they are accurate. creases and crease markings the crease markings are the lines painted on the ground. the creases are the back or inside edges of those lines. they are clearly marked on the diagram in appendix . the law makes clear distinction between the two. the creases are the lines to be used in judgments under law 21 no ball and law 30 batsman out of his her ground . for the crease markings although the law states that the lines must be white it imposes no restrictions on their width. the thickness of the lines does not matter as long as the inside or back edges of the lines are in the correct place whilst the bowling crease is to be 8ftin 2.64m long for the popping crease and the return creases the stated lengths are only the minimum that must be marked. they actually to the boundary on either side and the boundary behind the wicket. this must not be forgotten by umpires judging the position of the feet in law 21. one end of fully marked pitch. the bowling crease perhaps confusingly no longer has any significance for bowling. its importance is in relation to the wicket. the centres of the stumps are to be on the crease the back of the marked line in accordance with law 8.1 not in the middle of the crease marking. re marking of creases sections of the popping crease are often quickly wiped away by the bowler front foot. it is however essential that there is clear line for the umpire to judge the position of the bowler front foot for no balls. although in lawit will be seen that creases may be re marked when either umpire considers it necessary umpires should take any possible stumps correctly pitched note that the centre of the stumps are on the back edge of the bowling crease marking. action to restore the popping crease temporarily until it is possible for the ground staff to repaint them fully without holding up play unnecessarily. marking line with the edge of boot or bail is effective but may have to be done for every delivery. lawthe wickets 8.1 description width and pitching two sets of wickets shall be pitched opposite and parallel to each other in the centres of the bowling creases. each set shall bein 22.86 cm wide and shall consist of three wooden stumps with two wooden bails on top. see appendix . 8.2 size of stumps the tops of the stumps shall be 28 in 71.12 cm above the playing surface and shall be dome shaped for the ball grooves. the portion of stump above the playing surface shall be cylindrical apart from the domed top with circular section of diameter nat less than 1.38 in 3.50 cm nor more than 1.5 in 3.81 cm. see appendix . 8.3 the bails 8.3.1 the bails when in position on top of the stumps. shall not project more than 0.5 in 1.27 cm above them. shall fit between the stumps without forcing them out of the vertical. 8.3.2 each bail shall conform to the following specifications see appendix overall length 4.31 in 10.95 cm length of barrel 2.13 in 5.40 cm longer spigot 1.38 in 3.50 cm shorter spigot 0.81 in 2.06 cm 8.3.3 the two spigots and the barrel shall have the same centre line. 8.3.4 devices aimed at protecting player safety by limiting the distance that bail can travel off the stumps will be allowed subject to the approval of the governing body for the match and the ground authority. 8.4 junior cricket the governing body for cricket in the country concerned shall determine the dimensions of the stumps and balls and the distance between the wickets. 8.5 dispensing with balls the umpires may agree to dispense with the use of bails if necessary. if they so agree then no bails shall be used at either end. the use of bails shall be resumed as soon as conditions permit. see law 29dispensing with bails . this law defines the shape and size of the stumps and of the bails as well as the dimensions of the wicket as whole. these are all clearly illustrated in appendix . umpires must be satisfied that all implements and equipment used in the match is correct under the laws but they are not to have to check all measurements with tape measure. if there are any items which appear to be incorrect to the naked eye then further inspection will be needed. matters that umpires should always check are that the wickets are aligned end to end and parallel to each other. not uncommon error by umpires is failure to check that the stumps are perfectly upright that stumps are of the correct shape and are correctly placed with the back edge of the marking through the centres of the stumps this is of particular importance as it is often wrongly assumed that the stumps should be in the middle of the marked line. it is the ground authority not the umpires who will usually make the holes for the stumps but should an umpire notice they are incorrect they should attempt to correct them or get the ground staff to do so that the stumps are secured firmly in the ground and are equally spaced upright and parallel to each other watering of the stump holes will give firmness if the ground is crumbling or better grip if the ground is hard that the bails fit into the grooves and do not force the tops of the stumps apart that if possible the bails at each end are matching pair that the ball will not pass between the stumps. both umpires should carry spare bail in case one breaks. some will carry spare pair to ensure having matching pair if replacement is necessary. tethered bails in the act of putting down the wicket the bails can be sent flying which is occasionally dangerous. in response to injuries sustained by wicket keepers in particular law 8.3.4 allows specially designed mechanisms which tether the balls to the stumps thereby restricting the distance that they can fly off the stumps but without limiting their ability to be dislodged. such devices would need the approval of the appropriate governing body which may be done nationally or locally. dispensing with bails if the bails are continually being blown off during play not only is this irritating unfairly breaking concentration for both batsmen and fielders but it slows play. heavy bails made of heavier type of wood are often solution. if they are available they are often enough to fix the problem if it is caused by strong wind. it is not always that the difficulty is caused by high wind. it may be the result of poor bail grooves. nonetheless if heavy bails do offer solution it is far better to use them and continue with normal game if possible than to abandon bails altogether. there is no difference in size and appearance between regular bails left and heavy bails right . however if heavy bails do not solve the problem the umpires should agree to dispense with bails altogether. this decision which is for the umpires alone to make should not be taken lightly. it creates responsibility for the umpires in judging whether or not the wicket has been put down. that problem is discussed in law 29. here it should be noted that if bails are not used at one end then they must not be used at either end. if conditions improve bails should be replaced at both ends as soon as possible. lawpreparation and maintenance of the playing area 9.1 rolling the pitch shall not be rolled during the match permitted in 9.1.1 and 9.1.2 9.1.1 frequency and duration of rolling during the match the pitch may be rolled at the refuge of the captain of the batting side for period of not more thanminutes before the start of each innings other than the first innings of the match and before the start of each subsequent day play. see 9.1.4. 9.1.2 rolling after delayed start in addition to the rolling permitted above if after the toss and before the first innings of the match the start is delayed the captain of the batting side may request that the pitch be rolled for not more thanminutes however if the umpires together agree that the delay has had no significant effect on the state of the pitch they shall refuse such request for rolling of the pitch. 9.1.4 choice of rollers if there is more than one roller available the captain of the batting side shall choose which one is to be used 9.1.4 timing of permitted rolling the rolling permitted maminutes before play begins on any day shall be started not more than 30 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. the captain of the batting side may however delay the start of such rolling until not less than 10 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin. 9.2 clearing debris from the pitch 9.2.1 the pitch shall be cleared of any debris 9.2.1.1 before the start of each day play. this shall be after the completion of mowing and before any rolling not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 10 minutes before the time or any rescheduled time for start of play. 9.2.1.2 between innings. this shall precede rolling if any is to take place. 9.2.1.3 at all intervals for meals. 9.2.2 the clearance of debris in21 shall be done by sweeping where the umpires consider that this may be detrimental to the surface of the pitch. in this case the debris must be cleared from that area by hand without sweeping. 9.2.3 in addition to 9.21 debris may be cleared from the pitch by hand without sweeping before mowing and whenever either umpire considers it necessary. 9.3 mowing 9.3.1 responsibility for mowing 9.3.1.1 mowings which are carried out before the match shall be the sole responsibility of the ground authority. 9.3.1.2 all subsequent mowings shall be carried out under the supervision of the umpires. 9.3.2 the pitch and outfield in order that throughout the match the ground conditions should be as nearly the same for both sides as possible both the pitch and the outfield shall be mown on each day of the match on which play is to take place if ground and weather conditions permit. if for reasons other than conditions of ground or weather complete mowing of the outfield is not possible the ground authority shall notify the captains and umpires of the procedure to be adopted for such mowing during the match. 9.3.3 timing of mowing 9.3.3.1 mowing of the pitch on any day shall be completed not later than 30 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day before any sweeping prior to rolling. if necessary debris may be removed from the pitch before mowing by hand without sweeping see 9.2.3. 9.3.3.2 mowing of the outfield on any day shall be completed not later than 15 minutes before the time scheduled or rescheduled for play to begin on that day. 9.4 watering the pitch the pitch shall not be watered during the match. 9.5 re marking creases creases shall be re marked whenever either umpire considers it necessary. 9.6 maintenance of footholes the umpires shall ensure that the holes made by the bowlers and batsmen are cleaned out and dried whenever necessary to facilitate play. in matches of more than one day duration the umpires shall allow if necessary the re turfing of footholes made by the bowlers in their delivery strides or the use of quick setting fillings for the same purpose. 9.7 securing of footholds and maintenance of pitch during play umpires shall allow the players to secure their footholds by the use of sawdust provided that no damage to the pitch is caused and that law 41 unfair play is not contravened. 9.8 non turf pitches wherever appropriate the provisions set out in 9.1 to 9.7 shall apply. much of this law will apply only in higher grade matches where play to more than one day. however even at fairly low levels of the game rolling of the pitch is often available and in addition to the pre match rolling by the ground staff will take place between innings if requested. responsibility of umpires until the toss decisions about mowing sweeping watering and covering the pitch are entirely the responsibility of the ground authority whoever that may be. this does not mean that the umpires have no interest until the toss. not only do they have responsibility to check that the creases and wickets are in accordance with law but they are also the sole judges of the fitness of the pitch for play. it is not necessary for the toss to have taken place for them to decide that it would be unreasonable or dangerous for play to take place and so to forbid play to start. once the toss has taken place the management of all the activities listed above although still carried out by the ground authority is transferred to the umpires. the law lays down both the restrictions imposed and what is permitted. this is what should happen but in many one day games there will be neither the equipment nor the personnel to achieve these conditions. after the toss the pitch is the responsibility of the umpires. therefore while the ground staff may carry out sweeping top or other maintenance bottom it should be under the supervision of the umpires. umpires must see that what is possible does take place and that no action of pitch or ground maintenance contravenes the law. the chart on page 96 summarises the points of the law. the captain of the side winning the toss will have based the decision whether to bat or to field partly on his her reading of the pitch. this is the reason that no rolling is allowed before the first innings of the match unless there is delay between the toss and the call of play. if there is delay and the captain of the side due to bat then requests that the pitch be rolled the umpires must decide together what effect that delay has had on the state of the pitch. if there has been sudden heavy downpour before the call of play this may change its condition particularly if covers are not available or are not immediately used and rolling could be allowed. if however one of the opening batsmen injures his her ankle on the way to the crease there would be short delay in which nothing significant happens to the pitch. in this case the umpires would refuse the request for rolling. damage to the pitch since the players cannot avoid walking or running on the pitch in appropriate circumstances some damage is unavoidable especially in damp conditions when the ground is soft. specific or even deliberate damage is dealt with in law 41. here umpires should note their responsibility for minimising this unavoidable damage in several ways under this law. the use of sawdust will help bowlers and batsmen avoid sliding. this should help them keep their footing boosting their performance and help keep the ground in better condition. however the use of sawdust should not be in situations where play might otherwise be suspended under law 2.7.4 and must not damage the pitch in any way. the batsmen may prod down divots on which the ball could land but must not be allowed to bang the bat on the ground with unnecessary force. if in dry conditions the surface is breaking up the umpires will not allow sweeping which might worsen the condition. the bowlers footholes should be cleaned out and dried as far as possible. in matches of more than one day duration the ground staff will be able to fill them overnight with quick setting fillings or even turf. mowing not possible the law makes provision for difficulties in mowing the outfield every day such as the breakdown of the machinery required. the umpires and captains must know what alternative arrangements perhaps for partial mowing have been made. the umpires should check that this information is readily available for all. in multi day matches quick set fillings like this can help repair damage caused by bowlers footmarks. in some parts of the world it may be more suitable to mow the outfield at the end of day play rather than the beginning of the ne one when dew may be factor. the laws do not allow for this however many playing conditions do alter matters so it is permitted. umpires should make sure they are aware of any such playing conditions. re marking creases creases are important for many judgments that the umpires have to make. it is therefore essential that the markings are clear. there is no restriction in law on when they may be re marked. it is to be done whenever either umpire considers it necessary. it is likely that both sets of creases will need re marking at the same time but the law does not insist on this. they should if possible be re marked between innings. there are other opportunities when re marking can be done without delaying the progress of play. if necessary an umpire can as in lawdo makeshift marking him herself until such an opportunity arises. the chart summarises the main points. it does not include the initial preparation by the ground staff for the time by which rolling and mowing must finish before the match. non turf pitches clearly regulations about mowing the pitch will not apply. but re marking of creases and clearing of debris might well be relevant. if the under surface is hard earth rather than concrete even rolling might be appropriate. umpires must apply this law taking into account the relevant conte. preparation and maintenance of the pitch before time for start of play start finish first day subsequent days not earlier than not later than not later than mowing outfield each morning if possible 15 mins pitch each morning 30 mins rolling the pitch if the batting captain requests it. ma ofminutes for each occasion pitch not before first innings between toss and start of play if start delayed before subsequent innings each morning between innings 30 mins 10 mins sweeping may be used clear debris as below but not before mowing and not if detrimental to surface of pitch clearing debris from the pitch no sweeping before mowing pitch before start of play between innings before rolling at all intervals aside from drinks before start of play between innings. before rolling at all intervals aside from drinks 30 mins 10 mins pitch additionally by hand before mowing and whenever umpires consider necessary re marking creases whenever either umpire considers necessary maintenance of footholes whenever either umpire considers necessary watering the pitch at no time during the match but not if umpire consider delay has had no significant effect batting captain can request that start of rolling be delayed until not less than 10 minutes before start time law 10 covering the pitch 10.1 before the match the use of covers before the match is the responsibility of the ground authority and may include full covering if required. however the ground authority shall grant suitable facility to the captains to inspect the pitch before the nomination of their players and to the umpires to discharge their duties as laid down in lawsthe umpiresthe pitchthe creasesthe wickets andpreparation and maintenance of the playing area . 10.2 during the match unless determined otherwise before the toss on each night of the match and in inclement weather at any time during the match 10.2.1 the whole pitch and minimum offt 122 beyond it at each end shall be covered 10.2.2 the bowlers run ups where possible shall be covered. 10.3 removal of covers 10.3.1 after the toss the pitch is covered overnight the covers shall be removed as soon as practicable on each day that play is to take place. 10.3.2 if covers are used during the day as protection from inclement weather or if inclement weather delays the removal of overnight covers they shall be removed promptly as soon as conditions allow. agreement to the use of covers once rarity in club cricket most grounds can now offer some form of covering for the pitch. the law change in 2017 reflected this making the use of covers standard practice if they are available they will be used unless determined otherwise. umpires will discover in their general inspection of the ground on arrival what covers if any are available. what covering is done before the match is as with all pitch preparation matter for the ground authority. the only restriction on the and timing of its use is that players and umpires must be granted access before the toss to inspect the pitch. once the toss has taken place the umpires are responsible for overseeing covering throughout the match. covering bowlers run ups the point of covering the pitch is to ma playing time once conditions allow for play. the law therefore requires that the whole pitch and the area four feet beyond it at each end le to the end of the marked return creases . are covered. after that the ne priority if possible is the bowlers run ups. even at test match grounds the covers may not be long enough for the complete run up of some bowlers at other grounds they may well fall very far short the most important part that needs covering is the last few strides before delivery close to the bowling and popping creases which is covered by the law. after that it is obviously better to cover as much of the rest of the run ups as possible. minimum required covers removal of covers to keep loss of playing time to minimum covers should be removed as soon as the umpires decide the weather has improved sufficiently. it is for the umpires to make this decision but the action will be taken in conjunction with the ground staff. in some competitions there are playing conditions giving clear direction what is . in matches of more than one day covers may well be used to protect the pitch from possible rain overnight. these too should be removed as early as practicable providing the weather is fine. practicable means at time at which it is reasonable to ground staff to be available. field technique if there is sudden downpour getting the covers on to the pitch quickly will be important for keeping the pitch as dry as possible and ma the time for play once conditions allow for restart. in their pre match inspection umpires should not only find out what covers are available they also should find out how they are to be brought on to the pitch and who will do it so that everyone is ready to act quickly if need arises. in deciding time for resumption of play after an interruption for rain umpires should allow time for removal of covers. law 11 intervals 11.1 an interval 11.1.1 the following shall be classed as intervals the period between close of play on one day and the start of the ne day play. intervals between innings. intervals for meals. intervals for drinks. any other agreed interval. 11.1.2 only these intervals shall be considered as scheduled breaks for the purposes of law 24.2.6. 11.2 duration of intervals 11.2.1 an interval for lunch or tea shall be of the duration determined under law 2.3 consultation with captains taken from the call of time before the interval until the call of play on resumption after the interval. 11.2.2 an interval between innings shall be 10 minutes commencing from the close of an innings until the call of play for the start of the ne innings. see however 11.3 11.5 and 11.6. 11.3 allowance for interval between innings in addition to the provisions of 11.5 and 11.6. 11.3.1 if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the time agreed for close of play on any day there shall be no further play on that day. no change shall be made to the time for the start of play on the following day on account of the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.3.2 if captain declares an innings closed during an interruption in play of more than 10 minutes duration provided that at least 10 minutes remains of the interruption no adjustment shall be made to the time for resumption of play on account of the 10 minute interval between innings which shall be considered as included in the interruption if less than 10 minutes remains of the interruption when the captain declares the innings closed or forfeits an innings the ne innings shall commence 10 minutes after the declaration or forfeiture is made. 11.3.3 if captain declares an innings closed during any interval other than an interval for drinks provided that at least 10 minutes remains of the interval the interval shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings if less than 10 minutes remains of the interval when the captain declares the innings closed or forfeits an innings the interval shall be as necessary and the ne innings shall commence 10 minutes after the declaration or forfeiture is made. 11.4 changing agreed times of intervals if at any time during the match either playing time is lost through adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances or the players have occasion to leave the field other than at scheduled interval the time of the lunch interval or of the tea interval may be changed if the two umpires and both captains so agree providing the requirements of 112 and 115 116 11.7 and 118are not contravened. 11.5 changing agreed time for lunch interval 11.5.1 if an innings ends when 10 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for lunch the interval shall be taken immediately. it shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.5.2 if because of adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances stoppage occurs when 10 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for lunch then whether or not agreement is reached in the circumstances of 11.4. the interval shall be taken immediately it shall be of the agreed duration play shall resume at the end of this interval or as soon after as conditions permit. 11.5.3 if the players have occasion to leave the field for any reason when more than 10 minutes remains before the agreed time for lunch then unless the umpires and captains together agree to alter it lunch shall be taken at the agreed time. 11.6 changing agreed time for tea interval 11.6.1 if an innings ends when 30 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for tea the interval shall be taken immediately it shall be of the agreed duration and shall be considered to include the 10 minute interval between innings. 11.6.2n if when 30 minutes remains before the agreed time for tea an interval between innings is already in progress play shall resume at the end of the 10 minute interval if conditions permit. 11.6.3 if because of adverse conditions of ground weather or light or in circumstances stoppage occurs when 30 minutes or less remains before the agreed time for tea then unless either there is an agreement to change the time for tea as permitted in 11.4 or the captains agree to forgo the tea interval as permitted in 11.9 the interval shall be taken immediately. the interval shall be of the agreed duration play shall resume at the end of the interval or as soon after as conditions permit. 11.6.4 if stoppage is already in progress when 30 minutes remains before the agreed time for tea 114 shall apply 11.7 lunch or tea intervalwickets down for the lunch interval and for the tea interval if eitherwickets are already down whenminutes remains to the agreed time for the interval or the 9th wicket falls within thisminutes or at any time up to and including the final ball of the over in progress at the agreed time for the interval then the provisions of law 12.5.2 shall not apply and the interval will not be taken until the end of the over that is in progress 30 minutes after the originally agreed time for the interval unless the players have cause to leave the field of play or the innings is completed earlier for the purposes of this section of law the retirement of batsman is not to be considered equivalent to the fall of wicket. 11.8 intervals for drinks 11.8.1 if on any day the umpires determine that there shall be intervals for drinks the option to take such drinks shall be available to either side. each interval shall be kept as short as possible and in any case shall notminutes. 11.8.2 unless as permitted in 11.9 the captains agree to forgo it drinks interval shall be taken at the end of the over in progress when the agreed time is reached. if however wicket falls or batsman retires withinminutes of the agreed time then drinks shall be taken immediately. no other variation in the timing of drinks intervals shall be permitted as provided for in 118.3. 11.8.3 if an innings ends or the players have to leave the field of play for any other reason within 30 minutes of the agreed time for drinks interval the umpires and captains together may rearrange the timing of drinks intervals in that session. 11.8.4 intervals for drinks may not be taken during the last hour of the match as defined in law 126 last hour of match number of overs . subject to this limitation the umpires shall determine the times for such intervals if any before the toss and on each subsequent day not later than 10 minutes before play is scheduled to start. 11.9 agreement to forgo intervals at any time during the match the captains may agree to forgo the tea interval or any of the drinks intervals the umpires shall be informed of the decision when play is in progress the batsmen at the wicket may deputise for their captain in making an agreement to forgo drinks interval in that session. 11.10 scorers to be informed the umpires shall ensure that the scorers are informed of all agreements about hours of play and intervals and of any changes made thereto as permitted under this law. this law identifies which breaks in play are to be classed as intervals how intervals may be changed or cancelled and the specific arrangements governing certain intervals. intervals are also known as scheduled breaks and are different to interruptions and stoppages. many matches will be governed by different playing conditions which will define when intervals may be taken. where intervals are not specifically mentioned in those conditions they must be determined by the umpires before the toss as stated in this and other laws. in either case it is essential that umpires captains and scorers all know before the toss the timing and duration of all intervals. the slight to this is in matches of more than one day duration when drinks intervals on days other than the first day are decided not later than 10 minutes before the start of play on those days. duration of intervals the umpires should make every effort to ensure that intervals are limited to the length of time agreed measured from the call of time to start the interval up to the call of play for resumption of play after the interval. there are many situations discussed below where the time for starting an interval is or can be changed. in no circumstances can the duration of an agreed interval if taken be changed. although the timing of declaration or forfeiture or some other cause may mean that the 10 minute interval between innings is not long enough for everything that needs to be done once the 10 minutes has the interval should be at an end although it has not actually finished until the ne call of play . the remaining time is playing time which cannot be made up unless the delay is caused by the umpires investigating possible refusal to play or law 42 offence. interval between innings the interval between innings is not matter of agreement no fle is allowed. it has to start as an innings ends and must be 10 minutes long. law 2.3.1.2 provides that in one day match no specific time for the tea interval needs to be agreed. instead it may be taken at the close of the innings and the normal 10 minute interval between innings will then be taken as part of the tea interval which does not change in length. there are other occasions when the 10 minute interval or part of it is to be included in another break in play. these are an innings ending within 10 minutes of time for close of play. there will be no further play that day. play will resume at the scheduled time on the following day subject to conditions being safe for play. the batting captain declaring his her side innings closed or forfeits an innings during an interruption of more than 10 minutes duration in this case the new innings will start no earlier than 10 minutes from the declaration or forfeiture and as soon as umpires consider that conditions are no longer unreasonable or dangerous. during any interval other than drinks interval. in this case the new innings will start at the time agreed for the end of the interval or 10 minutes from the declaration or forfeiture whichever is later. in both these cases if there is less than 10 minutes of the interruption or interval remaining the ne innings will begin 10 minutes after the declaration or forfeiture. alteration of time for play and intervals the hours of play are times for start of play and for close of play on each day. start of play may have to be delayed if conditions are unreasonable or dangerous see law 2.8.2 . there are special provisions in laws 16.3 and 16.9 for altering time for close of play. these situations apart hours of play are not to be altered. the timing of lunch tea and drinks intervals can be changed in one of two ways first by agreement between the captains and the umpires and secondly in accordance with specific provisions of laws 11.5 to 11.8. in no case however may the duration of lunch or tea intervals be changed. lunch and tea intervals law 11.4 sets out how the time of either the lunch interval or the tea interval may be changed. it requires that not only both captains but also both umpires agree to the change. this prevents one captain situation to disadvantage the other side although it is usually the umpires who will suggest the rescheduling of an interval to ma the possible playing time and then the captains who will agree to it. umpires will see that the agreed change is not only sensible but is possible for everyone including the catering staff at the ground who will need to make such change at short notice. for suppose lunch has been arranged for 40 minutes at30 . . at 12 30p. . there is heavy rain. which is obviously going to continue for some time. it would clearly prevent waste of playing time if lunch could be taken straight away in the hope that by10p. . conditions will have improved. it might however be impractical to that at short notice lunch could be ready an hour before it was due particularly in the recreational game. but it might be possible in consultation with the catering staff to have it brought forward to say. . changing the time of the lunch interval many of the principles around changing the timing of an interval apply to both lunch and tea but there are also differences so it is useful to take them separately. for lunch the critical time is 10 minutes before it is scheduled. any stoppage or the end of an innings at that time or closer to the agreed time than that will mean that lunch is to be taken at once. this is not subject to agreement but must be complied with. the 10 minute interval between innings will be absorbed into the lunch interval. players leaving the field at the end of an innings for stoppage or for any other reason earlier than 10 minutes before the agreed time for lunch means that lunch is to be taken at the agreed time. in this case however agreement between captains and umpires to change this as described above is allowed. changing the time of the tea interval end of innings and stoppages in every case the captains can agree to forgo the tea interval. in every case the critical time for decisions about altering the timing of the tea interval is 30 minutes before tea is due stoppage may occur before this time. if the stoppage is still in progress at the 30 minute deadline then an agreement between captains and umpires as detailed above is permitted. otherwise tea will be taken at the agreed time. if an innings ends before this time such an agreement is not permitted. play will resume after the 10 minute interval even if that interval is already in progress at the 30 minute deadline. tea will be taken at the agreed time. the following two provisions apply to times at or after the 30 minute deadline. if at 30 minutes before tea is due or between then and the end of the over in progress at the due time players have to leave the field for any reason other than the end of an innings for stoppage for weather tea will be taken immediately but captains and umpires are allowed to agree otherwise. an innings ends the tea interval will be taken at once and will absorb the 10 minute interval between innings. captains and umpires are not permitted to agree otherwise. intervals when nine wickets are down if nine wickets are down when session before lunch or tea is about to end the interval is delayed to reduce the likelihood of two stoppages in short period of time. this applies to both lunch and tea and delays the interval if the ninth wicket is down or falls when there are three minutes before the interval is scheduled. play continues for another 30 minutes ending at the end of the over in progress 30 minutes after the originally agreed time for the interval unless the players have cause to leave the field or the innings is completed in which case the interval will be taken immediately. note that this section of law applies only towickets actually falling. batsman retiring does not count as one of thewickets. moreover it must bewickets. if the team is one player short it does not apply towickets falling. note that how early the 9th wicket falls is immaterial. if for lunch is due at. . the 9th wicket falling at 11.30 . . will qualify. it is only required that it should either be already down whenminutes remains or fall before the completion of the over in progress when the agreed time for lunch or tea is reached. so for lunch is due at. . lunch will be deferred in the following cases the 9th wicket falls at 12 . . new over starts at 12 58 and is completed at01. the 10th wicket has still not fallen. new over starts at 12 57. onlywickets are down. the 9th wicket falls at 12 59 on the 4th ball of the over. new over starts at 12 59. onlywickets have fallen. at02 the 9th wicket falls on the 5th ball of this over play will continue for up to 30 minutes and lunch will then be taken or will be taken when the innings ends the fall of the 10th wicket is most likely but maybe the captain will declare or even the winning runs will be scored lunch would also have to be taken if the players are forced off the field by sudden thunderstorm or other incident. however the interval is not to be postponed for ever. the deadline is not 30 minutes after the original time but the end of the over then in progress. if in the above play is still in progress at30 andballs of an over have been bowled then the very latest that lunch can be taken is the end of that over. note that this also applies to the tea interval. so similarly if tea were due to be taken at40p. . it would be deferred if the ninth wicket is down at that time and would be taken when the 10th wicket falls or at the end of the over in progress at10p. . it is also worth repeating that all the above provisions are subject to the captains right to agree to forgo the tea interval see below . drinks intervals unlike other intervals which are decided before the match takes place the decision whether or not to have drinks intervals must be determined by the umpires on each day of the match. if drinks breaks are to be taken the same arrangement must be made for both sides. the drinks intervals should be as short as possibleminutes is the ma. the break should be taken at the end of the over in progress when the time is reached or the end of the relevant over unless wicket falls or batsman retires withinminutes of that time when to save playing time it should be taken immediately. if an innings ends or players are off the field within 30 minutes of the break it is not taken. there should be no drinks intervals in the last hour of the match. note also that drinks break can be cancelled only if the captains both wish to do so. the batsmen at the wicket are allowed to take the place of their captain in making this decision if the captain is not on the field of play. umpires should see that the time limits set out in law 11.8.1 are observed to avoid unnecessary delays. note also that if there is an interruption outside of the 30 minute limit the rearrangement of drinks interval can be made only by captains and umpires together. forgoing intervals the captains are permitted to agree between themselves to forgo the tea interval on any day or one or more of the agreed drinks intervals. this must be jointly agreed. if either captain does not wish to cancel any particular interval then that interval will take place. if the captain of the batting side is not on the field his her team mates at the wicket can make the agreement about drinks on his her behalf though not about the tea interval. they must of course notify the umpires if they come to such an agreement. the umpires should ensure that the scorers also know. the captains are not permitted to forgo the lunch interval even if they both wish to do so. scorers the whole of law 11 is about the possible alteration of timings relating to the match. it is essential that at every stage the scorers are kept fully informed. field technique in number of the situations in this law the responsibility for the decision lies with the captains. however in practice it may be that the umpires will remind the captains that they can make such decision. for match may clearly be about to finish early with only few runs for the batting side to get with several wickets in hand and the last hour not yet started. if drinks interval had been arranged to be taken just before the start of the last hour the umpires might ask the captain of the fielding side and the batsmen at the wicket if they still want to take the interval for drinks or not. if they both agree to play on without the break then the umpires simply do not call time for that interval. if one or other team wants to take the drinks then the interval must be taken. law 12 start of play cessation of play 12.1 call of play the bowler end umpire shall call play before the first ball of the match and on the resumption of play after any interval or interruption. 12.2 call of time the bowler end umpire shall call time when the ball is dead at the end of any session of play or as required by the laws. see also law 20.3 call of over or time . 12.3 removal of bails after the call of time the bails shall be removed from both wickets. 12.4 starting new over another over shall always be started at any time during the match unless an interval is to be taken in the at normal pace has arrived at the position behind the stumps at the bowler end before the time agreed for the ne interval or for the close of play has been circumstances set out in 12.5.2. if the umpire walking reached. 12.5 completion of an over other than at the end of the match 12.5.1 if the agreed time for an interval is reached during an over the over shall be completed before the interval is taken as provided for in 12.5.2. 12.5.2 when less thanminutes remains before the time agreed for the ne interval the interval shall be taken immediately if either batsman is dismissed or retires or the players have occasion to leave the field whether this occurs during an over or at the end of an over. at the end of an innings if an over is thus interrupted it shall be completed on the resumption of play. 12.6 last hour of match number of overs when one hour of playing time of the match remains according to the agreed hours of play the over in progress shall be completed. the ne over shall be the first of minimum of 20 overs which must be bowled provided that result is not reached earlier art provided that there is no interval or interruption in play the bowler end umpire shall indicate the commencement of this 20 overs to the players and to the scorers. the period of play thereafter shall be referred to as the last hour whatever its actual duration when the minimum number of overs have been bowled in the last hour further overs can be started only if the original time for the close of play has not been reached see 12.7 and 12.8. 12.7 last hour of match interruptions of play if there is an interruption in play during the last hour of the match the minimum number of overs to be bowled shall be reduced from 20 as follows 12.7.1 the time lost for an interruption is counted from the call of time until the time for resumption as decided by the umpires 12.7.2 one over shall be deducted for every completeminutes of time lost 12.7.3 in the case of more than one such interruption the minutes lost shall not be aggregated the calculation shall be made for each interruption separately. 12.7.4 if when one hour of playing time remains an interruption is already in progress 12.7.4.1 only the time lost after this moment shall be counted in the calculation. 12.7.4.2 the over in progress at the start of the interruption shall be completed on resumption and shall not count as one of the minimum number of overs to be bowled 12.7.5 if after the start of the last hour an interruption occurs during an over the over shall be completed on resumption of play. the two part overs shall between them count as one over of the minimum number to be bowled. 12.8 last hour of match intervals between innings if an innings ends so that new innings is to be started during the last hour of the match the interval starts with the end of the innings and is to end 10 minutes later. 12.8.1 if this interval is already in progress at the start of the last hour then to determine the number of overs to be bowled in the new innings calculations are to be made as set out in 12.7. 12.8.2 if the innings ends after the last hour has started two calculations are to be made as set out in 12.8.3 and 12.8.4. the greater of the numbers yielded by these two calculations is to be the minimum number of overs to be bowled in the new innings. 12.8.3 calculation based on overs remaining at the conclusion of the innings the number of overs that remain to be bowled of the minimum in the last hour to be noted. if this is not whole number it is to be rounded up to the ne whole number. three overs for the interval to be deducted from the resulting number to determine the number of overs still to be bowled. 12.8.4 calculation based on time remaining at the conclusion of the innings the time remaining until the agreed time for close of play to be noted. 10 minutes for the interval to be deducted from this time to determine the playing time remaining. calculation to be made of one over for every completeminutes of the playing time remaining plus one more over if further part ofminutes remains. 12.9 conclusion of match 12.9.1 the match is concluded 12.9.1.1 as soon as result as defined in laws 16.1 to 16.4 and 16.5.1 the result is reached. 12.9.1.2 as soon as both the minimum number of overs for the last hour are completed and the agreed time for close of play is reached unless result is reached earlier. 12.9.1.3 in the case of an agreement under law 13.1.2. as soon as the final innings is completed as defined in law 13.3.5. 12.9.2 the match is concluded if without conclusion having been reached under 12.9.1 the players leave the fed for adverse conditions of ground weather or right or in circumstances and no further class possible. 12.10 completion of last over of match the over in progress at the close of play on the final day shall be completed unless either result has been reached or the players have occasion to leave the fees in this case there shall be no resumption of play in the circumstances of lawmistakes in scoring and the match shall be an end. 12.11 bowler unable to complete an over during last hour of match if for any reason bowler is unable to complete an over during the last hour law 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over shall apply the separate parts of such an over shall count as one over of the minimum to be bowled. the call of play begins session of play. the call of time ends one. these calls have considerable significance for the game. for there are restrictions set out in law 26 practice on the field imposed on players once play has been called. although many times during the course of play the ball becomes dead or is called dead these do not have the same finality as the call of time. once time has been called no incident can have any significance for the match apart from some specifically stated which apply at any time during the match. the significance of call of time is discussed further in law 31 appeals . note however the implication of law 16.9 mistakes in scoring which might mean that play has to resume even though the players had left the field. call of play the first call of play is not the start of the match that is the toss. however the first call of play does start the first session of the match signifying the start of playing time and the batting innings and the innings of both opening batsmen and instructs the bowler to bowl the first ball of the match. call of play must be made by the bowler end umpire to restart play whenever it has been stopped for whatever reason whether an interruption or an interval. an interruption is an unscheduled break in play usually but not always for conditions of ground weather or light. it could for be caused by the umpires having to investigate delay in the appearance of new batsman after the fall of wicket. the definition of an interval is set out in law 11. ine umpires sometimes forget that taking drinks is just as much an interval as the break for lunch. none must be forgotten. the time of the call of play has implications for the timing of the start of batsman innings and must therefore be carefully noted. see law 25.2 commencement of batsman innings . call of time this is also the responsibility of the bowler end umpire. just as play is called to start any session and restart after any break in play so time is called to end play at the end of any session of play or as required by the laws and at the end of the match. the call of time should be made once the ball is dead it is not used to make the ball dead. any break includes interruptions as well as intervals. it is just as important to call time when everyone is running off the field for sudden heavy downpour as it is when the break is for lunch or at the end of an innings. again the umpire must not forget to call time before drinks interval as well as at other intervals. after time is called the bails are to be removed. this is symbolic act it has no significance for the game indeed it is often ignored at drinks intervals although in law it is clear that the bails should be removed at that point just as at any other interval. there is nothing wrong with friendly wicket keeper bringing them to the umpire at that end if going to the pavilion takes the player in that direction as long they were not removed until time had been called. the appropriate umpire should also take possession of the match ball see field technique call of time . field technique call of play when taking the field at the start of the first session of the match the umpires will check that the playing area is cleared of spectators practicing players and any other obstructions. they should walk out few minutes before the time agreed for play to start giving themselves and the players enough time to get in position and complete all their final checks before the agreed time. on some grounds there is bell which can be rung to alert players. if there is nominute bell it will be necessary to make sure in some other way that the players know that the umpires are about to go out to the pitch. the umpire will always make sure both teams are aware that they are on their way out to the middle. the umpires will agree at which ends they will stand check the alignment of the stumps again and place the bails in position as the players follow them out. there have been several incidents in recent seasons where there has been stalemate at the start of an innings with the fielding team claiming that they wanted to know which batsman was on strike before deciding which bowler would bowl the first over while the batting side claimed they wanted to know who was bowling before deciding which of them would take strike. to solve this there is protocol that is now observed 1. the umpires take to the field first and choose the end from which they each will officiate. 2. the fielding side take to the field ne and inform the umpires from which end they will be bowling the first over and who that bowler would be. 3. the batsmen take to the field last and with the above information decide who is going to face the first ball. the umpire at the end from which the first over will be bowled must then take the following actions find out the bowler mode of delivery . . right handed or left handed from over or round the wicket. notify the bowler action and give guard to the striker. the giving of guard is often taken for granted but umpires must make sure they know what batsman is asking for. the terminology is not identical around the world but an umpire should make sure they know what is meant when batsman asks for each particular guard. the most common guards are middle stump leg stump or one leg . or two legs which is the midpoint between the middle and leg stumps and is also known as middle and leg . some batsmen will hold their bat side on for two some will hold it facing the umpire. that is the batsman choice and it is not for the umpire to question them merely to advise them where the bat is. give marker if necessary to the bowler. give the match ball to the bowler. if the sight screen needs to be moved it may be helpful for the umpire to assist by standing with the appropriate arm upraised in the appro place which the ball will be delivered. the umpire must also check that there are no more than 11 fielders on the field the fielding captain has finished setting the field the striker end umpire is ready the scorers are in position and ready both batsmen are ready the striker end umpire agrees the time for start of play has been reached. the umpire at the striker end will be looking for the enquiry that he she is ready having checked that the field setting does not involve more than two leg side fielders behind the popping crease. see law 28. the listing of these items does not imply that they have to be in that order though it will be seen that there is natural logic in it. for the point at which to hand the match ball to the bowler can be varied to suit the circumstances. however the check that the players and fellow officials are ready must come last. many umpires will want to check once again that the striker is ready immediately before calling play. when the checks are completed and the umpires agree that the scheduled time for start of play has been reached the bowler end umpire will call play. the call must be made clearly so that players of both sides are aware that the innings has started and play is about to begin. the call of play should be made with confidence particularly in the first instance in match. on most occasions it will be the first time the players have heard the umpire speak so the call should convey the message know what am doing and am ready for anything . the time that play is called should be noted by bot umpires so that they have an accurate record of what is playing time and what is not. all these checks are important. probably the two most often neglected by ine umpires are checking that the other umpire is ready and checking that the scorers are ready. this can obviously lead to major mistakes. frequently used signal for this check with the scorers though not official is for the umpire to raise one arm high above the head as if to signal bye if the game were in progress. an acknowledgement from the score box then demonstrates that the scorers are ready. most of this routine will be necessary at each call of play there will be small . for after an interval for drinks the umpires and players will already be on the field of play and there will be no set time for play to resume. it will begin as soon as the checks reveal that everyone is ready. the umpire must do what is appropriate to each situation. field technique call of time 1. before an interval time is not to be called until the ball is dead. unless the reason for the call is the end of an innings it is necessary for the umpires to check that the moment for the call has arrived. it is clearly inappropriate to check while the ball is in play. it must be done slightly ahead of time when the ball is dead. when an agreed interval is approaching possible checks which can be made unobtrusively are at the start of an over that the umpires agree there will not be time for more than this over during an over while the ball is dead between deliveries that theminute deadline discussed below has been reached if necessary final fail safe check by small mime of lifting the bails before actually doing so. 2. for any break for break not at the end of an innings if play resumes after the interval it must do so with the game in the same state as it was when the break began. this is easy to forget if the interruption is une sudden shower of rain or only likely to be brief for instance in order to administer law 42 sanction. it is important that umpires make sure they follow the procedure every time. umpires should note agree with each other and write down at which end the bowling will resume the umpire at that end should take possession of the ball who was bowling and at which ends at which end each batsman or the not out batsman as the case may be should be how many balls remain in the over if relevant the time at which the break began. for an agreed interval this will determine when it is to end. for an interruption it will be needed to determine how much playing time is lost. for drinks at any interval as opposed to an interruption the umpires are to check with the scorers that they agree the number of runs scored the number of wickets that have fallen and if relevant the number of overs bowled. it is therefore prudent for umpires to have checked with each other first. if the break is an interruption after consultation about the conditions there will be plenty of time to make these notes. if it is wild dash grabbing the bails on the way because of sudden cloudburst the notes can be made when the shelter of the pavilion is reached. completing the over in progress 1. during the match the current over will always be finished unless an innings ends during the course of it. law 12.5 sets out when an over is to be completed before starting an interval and when it will not be completed until after the interval. if batsman is out or retires when an interval is nearly due the umpire should check and then double check with his her colleague whether the time remaining until the agreed time for the interval isminutes or more or whether it is less thanminutes. if there is less thanminutes remaining . .mins and 59 secs or less before the agreed time for an interval the umpire will call time and remove the balls unless it is the ninth wicket when play will continue as discussed in law 11 . the interval will be taken. this is ta happen even if the wicket falls on the last ball of an over and the other umpire could have been in place in time for another over to start. otherwise play will continue. of course if an innings ends or the players have occasion to leave the field within theminutes there is no option butts take either the 10 minute interval or lunch or tea or dost of play as appropriate. 2. at the end of the match here there is no option the over cannot be completed. if result is reached the match is at an end unless the belle that result has been reached turns out to be mistaken one. that situation is discussed in law 16. aside from that rare possibility if the players have to leave the field in mid over it may already be clear that this was to be the last over. if that is not the case then the los of time during the interruption may mean that it becomes the last over. in either of these two situations play will not resume and this over will be left unfinished in all other situations the over in progress at the end of match will be completed in the absence of result even if this means new batsman coming in after time has been reached. note also that if the bowler bowling the last over of the match is unable to complete it because he she is incapacitated or suspended then another bowler must still complete this over as required by law 12.11. starting new over 1. during the course of play not at the fall of wicket when it is getting near the time for an interval at the end of session the umpires will check with each other how much time is remaining. if at the end of an over the time for the interval has already been reached time will be called if however there is even short time remaining the umpires will walk to their positions for the ne over. this is to be done at their normal pace it follows that normal pace must have been established during the course of the match. when the umpire who was at the striker end arrives at his her new position behind the stumps he she should check the time again. if time has still not been reached even by small margin new over will be started. there might be delay in starting it. for the captain may decide to change the field setting. the striker may be facing his her first ball at that end and need to take guard. that makes no difference neither would fielders rushing or moving deliberately slowly to get to their new positions. the only thing that matters is whether or not time has been reached when the umpire arrives at his her position behind the stumps. the situation at the fall of wicket has been dealt with under completing the over in progress . 2. at the end of the match if the length of the final innings is limited to number of overs new over will always be started until all these overs are completed unless result is reached earlier or conditions make play impossible. even if the match not the innings is one limited by time during the last hour the number of overs becomes the first deciding factor. unless the match has come to an end for any other reason the minimum number of overs in the last hour must be bowled and no question of time for starting another over or not can arise. once that minimum number of overs is achieved if there is still time remaining then the same routine will be applied as that described in 1. the first time check will be at the end of the last over of the minimum number required. it will be rare for there to be any time remaining at this point but it could happen. note however that the fall of wicket either during the course of an over or at the end of an over will not alter the decision as to whether another over is to be bowled. if when the umpire arrives at his her position behind the stumps the agreed time for close of play has not been reached in the absence of result another over will be started. the last hour of the match laws 12.6 12.7 and 12.8 deal with this very important feature of the closing stages of match not an innings limited by time the last hour. the last hour begins not one hour before the agreed time for close of play but at the start of the ne over after that moment. once the last hour has begun minimum of 20 overs is to be bowled unless the match ends sooner or time is lost for an interruption or interval. often it takes significantly longer than one hour to complete the overs. sometimes more than 20 overs are bowled before time is reached. the latter is rare but not impossible especially in competitions that use lower number than 20 for their last hour calculations. however the law requires 20 and specifies that even if they take an hour and half to complete or if 23 overs are achieved in the hour this final period of play is to be known as the last hour. umpires and scorers need to be clear that the match will not be concluded unless result is reached sooner until the minimum number of overs has been bowled and time for close of play has been reached. suppose close of play has been agreed for30p. . an over is in progress at30p. . so the last hour does not begin until32p. . and there is no interruption or interval after that point. this does not change the time for close of play. it is still30p. . if 20 overs have been completed by23p. . then play will continue until the end of the over in progress at30p. . not 6.32p. . . if on the other hand at30p. . only 17.4 overs of the minimum 20 have been bowled then assuming the match is not concluded earlier play will continue until the full 20 have been bowled. that it is time for the last hour to begin should be agreed between the umpires as for the call of time before an interval. the umpire who is at the bowler end for the first of the 20 overs will announce it to the players and signal to the scorers. the scorers will record the passage of the overs but the umpires must themselves both keep check. loss of time in the last hour if playing time is reduced either by interruptions to play or by an interval between innings there will be reduction in the minimum number of overs to be bowled. the principles which govern the calculations are set out in detail in the law and illustrated in the four on pages 124 127. two of those principles may need emphasising. it is difficult sometimes impossible for umpires to do calculations in their head at the moment of calling play. an interval between innings is always to be counted as 10 minutes. this will determine in advance the time for resumption. in the case of an interruption the umpires must decide the time for resumption before going back on to the field so that they can make calculation before going out agree it with the scorers and tell the captains. in deciding this time they will take account of how long it will take to remove any covers as well as the usual time taken for all to be ready for the call of play. after either an interval or an interruption if for any reason adjustments to the sight screen perhaps the start of play varies slightly from the time that had been decided no change to the earlier calculation is to be made. if of course the start after resumption is held up because of the conditions then the loss of time counts as continuation of the interruption and calculation has to be made accordingly. the second principle to note especially is that starting new innings during the last hour does not of itself change the method of calculation. it is only when an innings ends during the last hour that the two calculations are to be made. the recording of times at each stage is essential. to minimise the possibility of mistakes each umpire makes calculation and agrees it with his her colleague. the following illustrate the points though some may not be very realistic.1. close of play is agreed for30. 2. the first over of the minimum 20 begins at 52 3. at39 2.2 oversovers andballs have been bowled 4. there is then an interruption ofminutes for rain. 5. play is resumed at445 30 one hour remains5 32 last hour starts minimum of 20 hours remain5 39 22 overs have been bowled minimum of 17.4 overs remaininterruption ofminutes loseover5 44 play resumes minimum of 16.4 overs remain 0.4 over bowled to complete unfinished over minimum of 16 overs remain notice that although the last hour does not start until32p. . this has no effect on any calculation in columnthe 2.2 overs and 0.4 overs together makeovers achieved partly before the interruption the rest by completing the unfinished over after the interruption in columnonlyover is lost. theminutes lost is only one complete period ofminutes. the remainingminutes are ignored the achieving ofovers shown in columnand the loss ofover shown in columntogether make overs which tallies with the final statement that 16 overs must still be bowled.the same as above but now with second interruption 1. close of play is agreed for30. 2. the first over of the minimum 20 begins at32. 3. at39 2.2 oversovers andballs have been bowled. 4. there is then interruption ofminutes for rain. 5. play is resumed at44. the unfinished over is completed and further 5.1 overs are bowled 6. there is then second interruption of 10 minutes. in columntotal ofovers are shown as bowled 2.2 0.45.1 0.5total. in column4 oversthenhave been lost. these all total 13 overs. the minimum number remaining out of 20 is thus 7. note that the two interruptions are not aggregated to make 15 minutes. they are treated separately.an interruption is already in progress when the last hour is reached 1. close of play is agreed for30. 2. at10 rain holds up play withballs of an over still to be bowled 3. play resumes at38 the irregular numbering on the left is intentional. it corresponds with events which are described in logical sequence but are considered in time sequence. notice here that although the interruption lasted 28 minutes onlyminutes came after30 in the last hour the over in progress at the interruption is still the over in progress whenhour of playing time remains. the last hour does not start until the ne over after it. therefore although this over must be completed on resumption it does not form part of the minimum 20 overs.an innings ends and new innings is started during the last hour 1. the close of play is scheduled for30 and the last hour starts at33. 2. at45 the batting side is all out after 3.4 overs of the last 20 have been bowled. the calculation is for the number of overs for the ne innings the larger number is 14. minimum of 14 overs to be allocated for new innings. notice that the time calculation is needed only because new innings ended in the last hour if the 16.2 overs remaining at the end of the innings had been 16 it would not have been rounded up in the time calculation 35 minutes is 33minutes . . 11 overs andminutes. in contrast to the overs calculation an over is added on for the surplusminutes. conclusion of match umpires need to be clear about when match as opposed to any one particular innings is over. the criteria are se out in law 12.9. there are some situations where it will be clear when the match has come to an end such as side batting last reaching their target but not all are as clear. if result is not reached in match limited solely by hours of play the criteria for determining whether the match is concluded are discussed above under last hour of match. if however the match is one where it has been agreed to limit some or all innings to number of overs or to specified length of time deciding that the match is concluded will involve some of the terms of that agreement umpires should ensure that they know what those terms are before the start of the match. law 13 innings 13.1 number of innings 13.1.1 match shall be one or two innings for each side according to agreement reached before the match. 13.1.2 it may be agreed to limit any innings to number of overs or to period of time. if such an agreement is made then 13.1.2.1 in one innings match similar agreement shall apply to both innings. 13.1.2.2 in two innings match similar agreements shall apply to the first innings of each side or to the second innings of each side or to both innings of each side. for both one innings and two innings matches the agreement must also include criteria for determining the result when neither of laws 16.1 win two innings match or 16.2 win one innings match applies. 13.2 alternate innings in two innings match each side shall take their innings alternately in the cases provided for in law 14 the follow on or in law 15.2 forfeiture of an innings . 13.3 completed innings side innings is to be considered as completed if any of the following applies 13.3.1 the side is all out. 13.3.2 at the fall of wicket or the retirement of batsman further balls remain to be bowled but no further batsman is available to come in. 13.3.3 the captain declares the innings closed. 13.3.4 the captain forfeits the innings. 13.3.5 in the case of an agreement under 13.1.2 either the prescribed number of overs has been bowled or the prescribed time has as appropriate 13.4 the toss the captains shall toss coin for the choice of innings on the field of play and in the presence of one or both of the umpires not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 15 minutes before the scheduled or any rescheduled time for the start of play. note however the provisions of law 1.3 captain . 13.5 decision to be notified as soon as the toss is completed the captain of the side winning the toss shall decide whether to bat or to field and shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of this decision. once notified the decision cannot be changed. number and limitation of innings whether match is played over one or two innings for each side will normally be either determined by the playing conditions governing the match or will have been agreed well in advance of the start of the match. it is clearly essential that all concerned have this information. the playing conditions or agreement may include limitation on the time or the overs allowed for any or all of the innings. the law states that similar arrangements must apply to both sides. the umpires must ensure before the toss is made that both captains and they themselves are aware of any limitations that have been laid down or agreed together with all the possible consequences. it should not be assumed that everyone has studied the playing conditions as closely as the umpires will have done so they must make sure both captains know what is to happen. alternate innings if match is of two innings for each side the only two situations in which innings are not to alternate are those of follow on or forfeiture. these are discussed in laws 14 and 15 respectively if an innings is forfeited in two innings match for the purpose of umpires changing ends it is considered to have taken place. completed innings the outcome of match may depend on whether an innings is completed or not. there are other occasions when it is important to know if an innings has been completed. law 13.3 sets out clearly what is required for an innings to be considered completed. apart from the side being all out the situation of there being no further batsmen to come in although further balls remain to be bowled will occur if batsman has retired at some point in the innings and either is unable to resume his her innings or is not permitted to do so by the opposing captain. the same would be true if the last batsman having been injured earlier was unable to come in at the fall of the ninth wicket. batsman who has retired hurt will be assumed to be able to return if needed until the moment they are required and are unable to. for if team who have had batsman retire hurt are eight wickets down and the ninth wicket falls that team innings is not completed until the retired batsman is unable to return. if the ninth wicket falls on the penultimate delivery of the match and the injured batsman cannot come out to bat then the innings is completed. however if the ninth wicket falls on the final delivery of the match then the injured batsman might have been able to return. whether they would or would not have done so is relevant even if in cases they are absent from the ground. the innings is not completed. if batsman is suspended under leveloffence of law 42 and has not served his her full suspension when the ninth wicket falls the innings is also complete with the batsman being recorded as retired not out see law 42.4.2.3.5 . similarly if player has been removed from the field for leveloffence their innings is recorded as retired out either at the time if the side is batting or at the start of the ne innings if they are suspended while fielding see law 42.5.3.2.1 the toss it is usual for the captains to make the toss for choice of innings on or near the pitch to be used. the law only requires that it is on the field of play. it is however necessary for one of the umpires to be present at the toss to see that it is fairly conducted. it is not necessary for both umpires to be present but this tends to be the common practice. the law lays down time limitations for the toss not earlier than 30 minutes nor later than 15 minutes before the time set for play to start. umpires must insist that the toss is made within these time limits so as to enable prompt start for the match. if it has been decided that for any reason usually bad weather it is necessary to delay the originally agreed time for start of play then unless the toss has already taken place the timings will apply to the new start time. if either captain is not available when the toss is to be made the umpires must call upon that side to appoint deputy to do this. this deputy must be nominated player. although the nomination of players can be made by anyone associated with the team only nominated player can deputise at the toss. the captain who wins the toss will virtually immediately have to declare to the other captain and the umpire his her choice of batting first or fielding first. once he she has stated this choice there are no circumstances in which it can be changed even if the player conducting the toss is deputy for the captain or if there is then long delay before the start of play which changes the length of the match. field technique the same points of technique apply to the toss as to the nomination of teams as discussed under law 1. if the umpires have taken early steps to ensure the nomination is done in time then if required deputy will also be ready to make the toss. it may well be necessary to remind captains that the time for the toss is approaching. team sheets should be before the toss is made. in the case of delayed start it may also be necessary to tell the captains that decision to bat or to field cannot be changed even if it was made some hours before the rescheduled start time. for this very reason umpires should encourage captains where events allow to delay the toss until 30 15 minutes before the rescheduled time for the start of play. the practicalities of performing the toss are relatively straightforward. convention states that the home captain tosses the coin and the away captain calls but the umpire may toss and simply ask one captain to call if that is preferable. it may be useful to instruct the captain who is calling to call heads or tails loudly so as to avoid any confusion. once the toss is made the scorers must be informed of the outcome. law 14 the follow on 14.1 lead on first innings 14.1.1 in two innings match ofdays or more the side which bats first and leads by at least 200 runs shall have the option of requiring the other side to follow their innings. 14.1.2 the same option shall be available in two innings matches of shorter duration with the minimum leads as follows 150 runs in match ofordays 100 runs inday match 75 runs inday match. 14.2 notification captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of his her intention to take up this option once notified the decision cannot be changed. 14.3 first day play lost if no play takes place on the first day of match of more than one day duration 14.1 shall apply in accordance with the number of days remaining from the start of play. the day on which play first commences shall count as whole day for this purpose. irrespective of the time at which play starts. play will have taken place as soon as after the call of play the first over has started. see law 17.2 start of an over . enforcing the follow on follow on can happen only in matches of two innings for each side. it occurs when each side has completed one innings. it requires the side batting first to have scored more runs than the side batting second by at least the number stated in 14.1.1 and 14.1.2. in this situation the captain of the side batting first may ask the opposing side to follow their innings that is to bat again immediately. the captain does not have to use this power. if he she does use it the law states that the captain must notify the opposing captain and the umpires of the intention to do so. usually everyone will be aware that the difference in scores is large enough to make follow on possible so the captain will either notify that the follow on is being enforced or that it is not. the scorers will need to be informed as to whether there is to be follow on or not. as with the toss see law 13 once decision is made to enforce the follow on the captain may not change that decision. changing the duration of the match the lead required for follow on to be possible depends on the number of days the match is to last. this number may be affected by loss of playing time. the moment that play is deemed to have taken place will determine the duration of the match. play will have taken place as soon as the bowler starts his her run up or if he she has no run up his her bowling action for the first delivery of the match. once play has started that day counts as whole day however much playing time there is. the length of the match for the calculation of the follow on is based on that start time even if later days are lost.day match in which play first takes place after lunch on the third day counts asday match even if the fourth day is washed out. if according to the definition above play takes place on the first day the match will be considered as remaining at its originally scheduled length however many days play are actually achieved. that means that if bowler begins running in to bowl on the first morning but rain falls before the first ball is bowled the match is still deemed to have started on the first day even if there is no ball actually delivered until the scheduled third day and it should be treated as match of the originally decided length. law 15 declaration and forfeiture 15.1 time of declaration the captain of the side batting may declare an innings closed when the ball is dead at any time during the innings. declared innings shall be considered to be completed innings. 15.2 forfeiture of an innings captain may forfeit either of his her side innings at any time before the commencement of that innings forfeited innings shall be considered to be completed innings. 15.3 notification captain shall notify the opposing captain and the umpires of any decision to declare or to forfeit an innings. once notified the decision cannot be changed. declaration the captain of the batting side may declare his her side innings closed at any time during the innings whether play is in progress or not. if play is in progress the ball must be dead. there are competitions in which playing conditions may set restrictions on declaring or even forbid it in some circumstances. as soon as captain takes the decision to declare and notifies both the other captain and the umpires he she may not change this decision. forfeiture in two innings match either captain may forfeit that is choose not to use either of his her side innings at any point before the start of that innings. it may be that some playing time has been lost to rain and both captains agree not to use one innings effectively reducing the game to one innings match. the captain of the side batting first may decide to risk forfeiting the second innings because his her side have not achieved sufficient lead to enforce follow on but the captain believes that it may be possible to dismiss their opponents for fewer runs than the lead that has been established. as soon as captain takes the decision to forfeit and notifies both the other captain and the umpires he she may not change this decision. both an innings declared closed and forfeited innings are to be regarded as completed innings. field technique when captain declares an innings closed or forfeits an innings umpires should ensure that the opposing captain and the scorers are informed. it is essential that the groundsman is told as soon as possible so that there is minimum delay in rolling the pitch if the captain requests this and re marking the creases. there will be ten minute break between the innings as outlined in law 11.2.2 and the rolling must take place in this time. where declaration or forfeiture is notified during an interval or interruption but with less than 10 minutes of that stoppage remaining the ne innings will begin 10 minutes after the notification. law 16 the result 16.1 win two innings match the side which has scored total of runs in of that scored in the two completed innings of the opposing side shall win the match. see law 13.3 completed innings . note also 16.6. 16.2 win one innings match the side which has scored in its one innings total of runs in of that scored by the opposing side in its one completed innings shall win the match. see law 13.3 completed innings . note also 16.6. 16.3 umpires awarding match regardless of any agreement under law 13.1.2 number of innings 16.3.1 match shall be lost by side which 16.3.1.1 concedes defeat 16.3.1.2 in the opinion of the umpires refuses to play if so the umpires shall award the match to the other side. 16.3.2 if an umpire considers that an action by any player or players might constitute refusal by either side to play then the umpires together shall ascertain the cause of the action. if they then decide together that this action does constitute refusal to play by one side they shall so inform the captain of that side. if the captain persists in the action the umpires shall award the match in accordance with 16.3.1. see also law 42.6.1 captain refusing to remove player from the field . 16.3.3 if action as in 16.3.2 takes place after play has started and does not constitute refusal to play. playing time shall be counted as lost from the call of time to the call of play intervals law 11 and suspensions of play law 2.8 . the time for close of play on that day shall be by this length of time. if applicable no overs shall be deducted during the last hour of the match solely on account of this time. 16.4 matches in which there is an agreement under law 13.1.2 for any match in which there is an agreement under law 13.1.2 number of innings if the result is not determined in any of the ways stated in 16.1 16.2 or 163 then the result shall be as laid down in that agreement. 16.5 all other matches tie or draw 16.5.1 tie the result of match shall be tie when all innings have been completed and the scores are equal. 16.5.2 draw the result of match shall be draw when it is not determined in any of the ways stated in 16.1. 16.2 163 16.4 or 16.5.1. 16.6 winning hit or 16.6.1 as soon as result is reached as defined in 16.1 16.2 16.3 16.4 or 16.5.1 the match is at an end. nothing that happens thereafter as in law 41.18.2 penalty runs shall be regarded as part of it. note also 16.9 16.6.2 the side batting last will have scored enough runs to win only if its total of runs is sufficient without including any runs completed by the batsmen before the completion of catch or the obstruction of catch from which the striker could be dismissed 16.6.3 if boundary is scored before the batsmen have completed sufficient runs to win the match the whole of the boundary allowance shall be credited to the side total and in the case of hit by the bat to the striker score. 16.7 statement of result if the side batting last wins the match without losing all its wickets the result shall be stated as win by the number of wickets still then to fall. if without having scored total of runs in of the total scored by the opposing side the innings of the side batting last has been completed but as the result of an award ofpenalty runs its total of runs is then sufficient to win the result shall be stated as win to that side by penalty runs. if the side fielding last wins the match the result shall be stated as win by runs. if the match is decided by one side conceding defeat or refusing to play the result shall be stated as match conceded or match awarded as the case may be. 16.8 correctness of result any decision as to the correctness of the scores shall be the responsibility of the umpires. see law 2.15 correctness of scores . 16.9 mistakes in scoring if after the players and umpires have left the field in the belief that the match has been concluded the umpires discover that mistake in scoring has occurred which affects the result then subject to 16.10 they shall adopt the following procedure. 16.9.1 if when the players leave the field the side batting last has not completed its innings and either the number of overs to be bowled in the last hour or in that innings has not been completed or the agreed time for close of play or for the end of the innings has not been reached then unless one side concedes defeat the umpires shall order play to resume. unless result is reached sooner play will then continue. if conditions permit until the prescribed number of overs has been completed and either time for close of play has been reached or the allotted time for the innings has as appropriate. the number of overs and time remaining shall be taken as they were at the call of time for the supposed conclusion of the match. no account shall be taken of the time between that moment and the resumption of play. 16.9.2 if at this call of time the overs have been completed and no playing time remains or if the side batting last has completed its innings the umpires shall immediately inform both captains of the necessary corrections to the scores and to the result. 16.10 result not to be changed once the umpires have agreed with the scorers the correctness of the scores at the conclusion of the match see laws 215 correctness of scores and 32 correctness of scores the result cannot thereafter changed. correctness of result the umpires have responsibility to ensure that the result is correct. they are required to agree the score with the scorers at intervals and again at the end of the match. as discussed in lawumpires are not required to keep score but must be able to satisfy themselves that it is right in order to be able to check the result is correct. if there is no qualified scorer or only one scorer the umpires may decide to keep running tally making note at the end of each over. however this will have an impact on their focus on the other key areas for which they are responsible so if at all possible should be avoided. at higher levels where there are two qualified scorers they need only not incidents that may need checking with the scorers as well as the number of wickets fallen and overs bowled. if there are any queries that can be resolved by discussion with the scorers then the umpires must decide what the score should be. the result of match win by one side getting more runs than the other is clear it is important to realise that for such win the losing side must have completed its innings or in two innings match both its innings as defined in law 13 . it should be noted from 16.7 how these results are to be stated in the scoring record as win by runs if the winning side batted first. or win by wickets if the winning side batted last. in two innings match it is possible for side to score enough runs to win in one innings although the losing opponents must have batted twice. in this case it is traditional to state the result as win by an innings and the number of runs in of its opponent two scores put together. unless playing conditions most usually the duckworth lewis stern method apply if the side batting last does not score more than its opponents but has not completed its innings then the match is draw even if the scores are equal. when the side batting last have completed their final innings and the final scores are level the result is tie. the special and rare cases of win by penalty runs of the umpires awarding match of side conceding defeat or even of match being abandoned with no result are dealt with below. winning hit or the scoring of the winning run ends the match immediately. the ball is dead straightaway and any events after this will not be part of the match other than the awarding of penalty runs more of which below . for if the side batting last needs one run to win and wide ball is called and not revoked the instant award of one run penalty for the wide means the desired run is scored and the match is won. even if the wicket it put down fairly by member of the fielding side the batsman cannot be stumped or run out. if two runs are needed to win and the batsmen complete two runs the match is finished and third run would not be valid however much the striker might want it to complete his her century. if the ball reaches the boundary before the batsmen have completed the winning run the boundary allowance will count. if the winning run is completed before the ball reaches the boundary only the runs up to the point of winning will count. however if the umpire has occasion to awardpenalty runs for some offence on this final delivery the law instructs him her to do so when the ball is dead. although this appears to be too late these runs will in fact count. although the penalty is not announced until the ball is dead the offence must have been committed before it became dead. law 16.6.2 is reminder that runs not scored or disallowed over ride the award of runs. so if catch is taken or obstructed any runs made before its completion are not scored and thus do not count so cannot contribute towards winning score. win by penalty runs this can occur only if the side batting last has completed its innings and the award ofpenalty runs at the very end of the match as described in the last paragraph makes the difference between falling short of the target and having enough runs to win. for side is chasing total of 185 runs and with nine wickets down and one ball to go have reached 183 two short of the opposition total. they need three runs to win. the batsmen attempt these runs but one of them is run out on the second run. they will score only one run making their total 184 all out. the result would be win by one run to the fielding side. if howeverpenalty runs are awarded to the batting side as result of fielding offence on this last delivery that will bring the batting score to 189 all out. the result is win by penalty runs to the batting side. umpires awarding match law 16.3 makes clear that although no appeal is necessary the awarding of match is not an arbitrary action by the umpires. first there must be some action by either the fielding side or the batting side that means play cannot start or cannot continue as it should. this could be batsman not emerging from the pavilion or fielding captain refusing to continue after an interval. the umpires together must discover the reason for this action. if play is in progress this will probably mean leaving the field and going to the pavilion. time must be called before doing so and the umpires should take possession of the ball. the umpires should agree and note the time taking care to record the time of the incident prompting the investigation rather than the time that the investigation itself started as adjustments to the time for close of play may be needed. if it is apparent to the umpires that there is indeed refusal to play they must warn the captain of the side of the consequences of this refusal. failure to start or continue after such warning leaves the umpires no option but to award the match to the other side. if captain refuses to remove player from the field as directed by the umpires for levelor leveloffence under law 42 then the umpires should warn the captain that this will be taken as refusal to play. if the captain still fails to remove the offending player then the umpires must award the match to the opposing side as directed under law 42.6.1. if play start or continue as result of the warning or because there was no intentional refusal to play calculation of the time lost must be made jointly by the umpires. umpires abandoning the match match might be abandoned because the weather or other unforeseen circumstances make it impossible for there to be enough play to reach result as agreed under law 13.1.2. however under law 42.6.2 refusal by both captains to comply with the instructions of the umpires to remove players from the field for the same levelor more likely leveloffence could in the result in the umpires abandoning the match and no result is returned. for this to occur at least two players from different teams must commit levelor leveloffences as part of the same incident or more than one incident being dealt with by the umpires at the same time . should one captain refuse to remove his her player for this offence the match will be awarded to the other team. if both captains refuse since the match cannot be awarded to both teams and cannot continue it will simply not be concluded and there will be no result. umpires should work with the captains to avoid such conclusion if at all possible. captain conceding match although it will be rare the law allows captain to decide that it is not worth continuing play and to admit defeat. the umpires will then declare that the other side has won the match. mistakes in scoring either keeping tally of the score or checking throughout play depending on the number and of the scorers as advised above will mean that any discrepancies are soon discovered and can be put right long before the end of the match. it is especially important to keep to this routine as the match draws near to its close. both sides will need to know how the scores stand. it is usually good practice to confirm the scores are right more frequently towards the end of match and at the very least ensure they are correct before the final over as well as at every interval. however law 16.9 sets out details of how to proceed if mistake is discovered after the players have left the field thinking the match was over. action other than informing those concerned is not required unless the mistake affects the result. there are two possible situations first if the batting side had completed its innings or no time or overs remain then clearly no more play is possible as indeed would be the case in dangerous conditions of ground weather or light. the umpires must then alter the score to its correct value and tell the captains of the changed result. second if the innings of the batting side is not completed or time or overs remain play should restart and continue until result is reached or until time and overs are used up or until conditions become unreasonable or dangerous. failing light may well bring play to an end in such situation. this is one of the very rare situations in which captain might concede defeat. if it is discovered that the batting side needs one more run to win and still has five wickets in hand with half an hour to play in good light and dry conditions the fielding captain just might concede defeat rather than bring the players back on to the field. if play is resumed time will have been lost but should not be taken out of the match. this loss of time and any associated decrease in the number of overs to be bowled are both to be disregarded. the clock and the over count are to stop at the original call of time and will not start again until the call of play for the resumption. it is much better to be careful that the scores are correct throughout play so that the situation does not arise. result not to be changed there have been reports of governing bodies attempting to change the results of matches. the law unequivocally states that once the two umpires have agreed the scores and hence the result it may not thereafter be changed. the governing body may in the light of some irregularity or incident of unfair play award points or whatever for match without changing the result particularly where an award of points is involved. this should not be confused with changing the actual result. law 17 the over 17.1 number of balls the ball shall be bowled from each end alternately in overs ofballs 17.2 start of an over an over has started when the bowler starts his her run up or if there is no run up starts his her action for the first delivery of that over. 17.3 validity of balls 17.3.1 ball shall not count as one of theballs of the over unless it is delivered even though as in law 41.16 non striker leaving his her ground early batsman may be dismissed or some other incident occurs without the ball having been delivered. 17.3.2 ball delivered by the bowler shall not count as one of theballs of the over. 17.3.2.1 if it is called dead or is to be considered dead before the striker has had an opportunity to play it. see law 20.6 dead ball ball counting as one of over . 17.3.2.2 if it is called dead in the circumstances of law 20.4.2.6. note also the special provisions of law 20.4.2.5 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . 17.3.2.3 if it is no ball. see law 21 no ball . 17.3.2.4 if it is wide see law 22 wide ball . 17.32..5 when any of laws 24.4 player returning without permission 28.2 fielding the ball.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker . or 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman is applied. 17.3.3 any deliveries other than those listed in 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 shall be known as valid balls. only valid balls shall count towards theballs of the over. 17.4 call of over whenvalid balls have been bowled and when the ball becomes dead the umpire shall call over before leaving the wicket. see also law 20.3 call of over or time . 17.5 umpire miscounting 17.5.1 if the umpire miscounts the number of valid balls the over is counted by the umpire shall stand. 17.5.2 if having miscounted the umpire allows an over to continue aftervalid balls have been bowled he she may subsequently call over when the ball becomes dead after any delivery even if that delivery is not valid ball. 17.6 bowler changing ends bowler shall be allowed to change ends as often as desired provided he she does not bowl two overs consecutively nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs in the same innings 17.7 finishing an over 17.7.1 other than at the end of an innings bowler shall finish an over in progress unless incapacitated or suspended under any of the laws. 17.7.2 if for any reason other than the end of an innings an over is left uncompleted at the start of an interval or interruption it shall be completed on resumption of play. 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over if for any reason bowler is incapacitated while running up to deliver the first ball of an over or is incapacitated or suspended during an over the umpire shall call and signal dead ball. another bowler shall complete the over from the same end provided that he she does not bowl two overs consecutively nor bowl parts of each of two consecutive overs in that innings. the over unless there is playing condition or other prior agreement that says otherwise an over is to consist ofvalid balls umpires should study law 17.3 to be sure they understand what valid ball is and they know which balls are valid and which ones are not. 17.3.1 and 17.3.2 list the deliveries which are not valid balls and so do not count in the over. ball is not delivered unless the bowler completed his her delivery action and releases the ball towards the striker end. although in an attempt to run striker bowler may throw the ball at the non striker wicket before the point of delivery this is not delivering the ball since he she has not reached the point at which you would the ball to be released normally. it therefore will not count as ball in the over whether or not the bowler actually releases the ball. the two cases of balls that are not valid cited in 17.3.2.2 are those where the striker is distracted while preparing to receive or receiving the ball or not ready when it is delivered. if the striker is not ready for the ball to be delivered then the ball will not count as valid only if the batsman does not make an attempt to play it and the umpire is satisfied that the striker had an acceptable reason for not being ready. if however there is distraction even if the striker actually tries to play the ball and makes contact the delivery will not be valid ball. in the cases listed in 17.3.2.5 the fact that the ball is not to count in the over is specifically stated in each of these laws. the over starts when the bowler starts his her run up to deliver the first ball. the law recognises that there are bowlers though not many who do not have run up. in that case the starting point for an over is when such bowler begins the delivery action for the first ball. the delivery action would start with the placement of the back foot in delivery stride or the delivery swing as defined in appendix . it is vital that umpires count the balls in an over correctly especially in matches where innings are limited to nu ber of overs. devices such as clickers are available but coins pebbles or other small objects are also widely used. whatever method of counting is employed it is essential that the umpire uses the same procedure for every delivery so that it becomes almost automatic. so if an umpire chooses to count the ball as it is released he she must always count it then. if another umpire chooses to count when the ball becomes dead that is another perfectly valid method so long as that umpire always makes sure to count when the ball becomes dead. if no ball or wide is bowled or for some other reason delivery is not valid ball the umpire must remember not to count it as one of the over. the bowler end umpire is responsible for the call of over when the si valid ball to have been delivered has become dead. however both umpires should count to as to help each other out if needed. it is that the umpires will check with each other and agree when there are two deliveries remaining. there are some situations when umpires may choose to check after the completion of bothanddeliveries as an safeguard. such an arrangement must be clearly understood in agreement between the two umpires before play begins. umpire miscounting if as suggested the two umpires work together in checking the number of deliveries the possibility of miscounting will be minimised. mistakes do however sometimes occur le may be possible to rectify the mistake immediately without any fuss should the other umpire or scorer point it out straight away. however if that does not happen no further attempt at correction is to be made. the over stands with the wrong number of valid balls those balls cannot be made up later and the umpire should not attempt to fix one mistake with another. further if the bowler end umpire accidentally lets the over go on for too long he she may perhaps have allowed seven balls to be delivered. if the seventh delivery is no ball or wide when the umpire realises the mistake he she should call over as soon as the ball is dead for that delivery. although that ball was not valid there had already been six valid balls before it and so the over is complete and no further delivery should be allowed. call of over the call of over does not make the ball dead. the si valid ball has to have become dead before calling over just as the ball should become dead before the call of time rather than being made dead by the call of time . however if an action means the match has been completed the call of time will indicate this and hence the ball will already have been made automatically dead even though it might appear still to be in play. see law 16.6.1. as with all calls the call of over should be made loud and clearly. while avoiding waste of playing time by delaying too long the umpire must be sure that the ball is dead before making the call. dead ball is the subject of law 20. over must be completed there are several reasons injury or suspension of bowler taking an interval at the fall of wicket interruptions for weather and so on for an over being interrupted. if play resumes after the break an innings ending in mid over is the only situation in which the over will not be completed. the completion must be by the same bowler unless that bowler is incapacitated or suspended. umpires must note carefully both the current bowler and the previous bowler when any break occurs to ensure that replacement bowler did not bowl any balls in the previous over. further that bowler will not be allowed to bowl any balls not even as replacement bowler part way through in the ne over. the same embargo of not bowling even few balls in two consecutive overs applies to bowler changing ends. these embargoes only apply within the same innings should team be bowling in consecutive innings in the case of forfeiture or follow on then bowler may be involved in overs that are consecutive but make up parts of different innings. law 18 scoring runs 18.1 run 18.1.1 the score shall be reckoned by runs. run is scored so often as the batsmen at any time while the hall play have crossed and made good their ground from end to end. 18.1.2 when boundary is scored. see law 19 boundaries . 18.1.3 when penalty runs are awarded. see 18.6. 18.2 runs disallowed wherever in these laws provision is made for the scoring of runs or awarding of penalties such runs and penalties will be subject to any provisions that may be applicable for the disallowance of runs or for the non award of penalties. when runs are disallowed the one run penalty for no ball or wide shall stand andrun penalties shall be allowed for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 18.3 short runs 18.3.1 run is short if batsman fails to make good his her ground in turning for further run. 18.3.2 although short run shortens the succeeding one the latter if completed shall not be regarded as short. striker setting off for the first run from in front of the popping crease may do so also without penalty. 18.4 unintentional short runs in the circumstances of 18.5 18.4.1 if either batsman runs short run the umpire concerned shall unless boundary is scored call and signal short run as soon as the ball becomes dead and that run shall not be scored. 18.4.2 if after either or both batsmen run short boundary is scored the umpire concerned shall disregard the short running and shall not call or signal short run. 18.4.3 if both batsmen run short in one and the same run this shall be regarded as only one short run. 18.4.4 if more than one run is short then subject to 18.4.2 and 18.4.3 all runs called as short shall not be scored. 18.4.5 if there has been more than one short run the umpire shall inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded. 18.5 deliberate short runs 18.5.1 if either umpire considers that one or both batsmen deliberately ran short at that umpire end the umpire concerned shall when the ball is dead call and signal short run and inform the other umpire of what has occurred and apply 18.5.2 18.5.2 the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable awardpenalty runs to the fielding side award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side inform the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action 18.5.3 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 18.6 runs awarded for penalties runs shall be awarded for penalties under 18.5 and laws 21 no ball 22 wide ball 244 player returning without permission 26.4 penalties for contravention 28.2 fielding the ball 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 41 unfair play and 42 players conduct . note however the restrictions on the award of penalty runs in laws 18.5 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 34 hit the ball twice 41.14 batsman damaging the pitch and 41.15 striker in protected area . 18.7 runs scored for boundaries runs shall be scored for boundary allowances under law 19 boundaries . 18.8 runs scored when batsman is dismissed when batsman is dismissed any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. no other runs shall be credited to the batting side as follows. 18.8.1 if batsman is dismissed obstructing the field the batting side shall also score any runs completed before the offence. if however the obstruction prevented catch being made no runs other than penalties shall be scored. 18.8.2 if batsman is dismissed run out the batting side shall also score any runs completed before the wicket was put down. if however striker who has runner is himself herself dismissed run out under law 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner any runs completed by the runner and the other batsman shall be disallowed. 18.9 runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of wicket when the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the fall of wicket or is called dead by an umpire unless there is specific provision otherwise in the laws any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall be scored. note however the provisions of laws 233 leg byes not to be awarded and 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . additionally the batting side shall be credited with all runs completed by the batsmen before the incident or call of dead ball and the run in progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the incident or call of dead ball. note specifically however the provisions of law 41.5.8 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman . 18.10 crediting of runs scored unless stated otherwise in any of the laws. 18.10.1 if the ball is struck by the bat. all runs scored by the batting side shall be credited to the striker for the following an award ofpenalty runs which shall be scored as penalty runs the one run penalty for no ball which shall be scored as no balls . 18.10.2 if the ball is not struck by the bat runs shall be scored as penalty runs byes. leg byes no ball or wides as the case may be. if byes or leg byes accrue from no ball only the one run penalty for no ball shall be scored as such and the remainder as byes or leg byes as appropriate. 18.10.3 the bowler shall be debited with all runs scored by the striker all runs scored as no ball all runs scored as wides. 18.11 batsman returning to original end 18.11.1 when the striker is dismissed in any of the circumstances in 18.11.1to 18.11.1.6 the not out batsman shall return to his her original end. 18.11.1.1 dismissal in the circumstances of law 25.6.4 or 25 6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner . 18.11.1.2 bowled. 18.11.1.3 stumped 18.11.1.4 hit the ball twice. 18.11.1.5 lbw 18.11.1.6 hit wicket. 18.11.2 the batsmen shall return to their original ends in any of the cases of 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3. 18.11.2.1 boundary is scored. 18.11.2.2 runs are disallowed for any reason. 18.11.2.3 decision by the batsmen at the wicket to do so under law 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsmen . 18.12 batsman returning to wicket he she has left 18.12.1 when batsman is dismissed in any of the ways in 18.12.1.1 to 18.12.1.3 the not out batsman shall return to the wicket he she has left but only if the batsmen had not already crossed at the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. if runs are to be disallowed however the not out batsman shall return to his her original end. 18.12.2.1 caught 18.12.2.2 obstructing the field. 18.12.2.3 run out other than under law 25.64 or 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner . 18.12.2 if while run is in progress the ball becomes dead for any reason other than the dismissal of batsman the batsmen shall return to the wickets they had left but only if they had not already crossed in running when the ball became dead. if however any of the circumstances of 18.11.2.1 to 18.11.2.3 apply the batsmen shall return to their original ends. this law how the batsmen can score run and details the cases where the runs they appear to make do not count. it summarises when runs that have not been made by the batsmen are to accrue to the batting side. it also states what runs if any are to be allowed when batsman is dismissed and to which end the batsmen should go after wicket falls. it is therefore at the very heart of the game of cricket. there are three main ways in which runs are scored. the batsmen run runs are awarded for boundaries runs are awarded to team as penalties following contravention of the laws by the other side. all of these are set out in detail in individual laws. runs not scored and runs disallowed before considering the many ways in which runs can be scored or awarded due note must be taken of the situations when run even though taken is not scored and when run or runs are disallowed see also definitions in appendix .11 . law 18.2 makes it clear that whenever law speaks of the scoring of runs or penalties to be awarded the statement is to be understood as accompanied by the phrase subject to any disallowance of runs or penalties that may apply. this law advises that when runs by the batsmen are to be disallowed penalties otherwise due may or may not be awarded. it avoids the necessity of listing all such occasions although it is always implicit in the relevant law. there are two situations 1. runs that are not scored are runs that are not illegal but are not recognised as properly runs. these are not runs that are disallowed so the batsmen are not returned to their original ends on that account unless required by other laws the basic principle that run is scored if the batsmen cross and make good their ground from end to end does not apply if other laws deem that run not to have been scored although the batsmen are not returned to their original ends. these laws are one or both batsmen run short law 18.4 batsman is dismissed caught law 33.4 striker is dismissed obstructing ball from being caught law 37.5 2. runs are disallowed when breach of law by one or both batsmen requires the umpire to cancel any completed runs and return the batsmen to their original ends in the following situations either batsman deliberately runs short law 18.5 leg byes are not awarded as the striker was neither attempting to play the ball with the bat nor avoiding injury law 23.3 an injured striker with runner is himself herself dismissed run out law 25.6.5 batsman runner leaves his her ground before the ball reaches the striker or passes the popping crease law 25.7 the batsmen run after ball has been lawfully struck more than once law 34.4 second or subsequent instance of any batsman damaging the pitch law 41.14 second or subsequent instance of any batsman taking guard in or close to the protected area law 41.15 when runs are disallowed in these seven situations the penalty of one run for no ball or wide will be awarded if appropriate as will any other award ofpenalty runs for those if the ball hits an unworn helmet belonging to the fielding side that has been placed on the ground behind the wicket keeper in line with the stumps law 283 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . when the batsmen score run by running it is important to understand that run is not completed until both batsmen have run and crossed and each has grounded their bat or some part of his her person behind the popping crease at the other end. it is this grounding behind the popping crease that is essential for the completion of the run. whenever the batsmen run each umpire must be in position to watch that every run is properly completed. this means judging whether the batsmen have both made good their ground see law 30.1 behind the crease at the end to which they are running and if more than one run before they turn for the ne run. the bowler end umpire must move away from the wicket to position where he she can observe the creases and the wicket from the side and the striker end umpire must be lined up with the popping crease at that end. this is discussed further in law 38. short running the key words in law 18.3.1 are in turning for further runt if batsman fails to complete run but does not start out for another one he she can be run out but is not to be considered as running short. equally if he she does turn for another run then whatever may happen on the ne run is not affected by this one. it is the run the batsman fails to complete before setting out again that is short and so not to be counted. the law also states what is taken for granted by players the striker receiving the ball in front of the popping crease may run from that point without causing that first run to be short. simple mistake is penalised only by the loss of the uncompleted run and even that sanction is not imposed if the ball goes to the boundary. since it is failed turn that constitutes short run it follows that two runs must be attempted before one can be short. if in this case both umpires call and signal short run when the ball is dead it must be for the first run. only one run will be deducted. the scorers will understand this and no consultation between umpires is necessary though it should be checked with the scorers at the ne interval. if however three or more runs have been attempted and both umpires call and signal consultation between them will be necessary to determine whether it was the same run short at both ends or whether it was the first at one end and the second at the other. in the former case only one run is to be deducted in the latter case two will not be counted. the umpire at the bowler end is responsible for repeating the short run signal to the scorers when the ball is dead and for informing them of the number of runs that have been scored if more than one run is short. this is not case of runs being disallowed. it is an of the principle that with certain only completed runs count. deliberate short running deliberate short running is unfair and could occur at any time but it is more likely towards the end of an innings when it could be important to the batting side both to score runs and for particular batsman to keep the strike. the dishonest practice of deliberately running short leads not only to all runs from that ball being disallowed and the return of the batsmen to their original ends but also torun penalty and report to the governing body for the match. this is deliberate cheating so unlike with accidental short running the penalty applies even if the ball goes to the boundary. if the deliberate short run was from no ball or wide then the one run penalty for this will be awarded as will any other penalty runs applicable for the ball hitting the unworn helmet placed on the ground behind the wicket keeper by the fielding side. the decision that it was deliberate must be made with due seriousness but an umpire must not avoid making it. help from his her colleague may not be available the other umpire will have been watching the touch down at his her own end. nevertheless the umpires must act together if report is to be made. note also that while either umpire may have seen and signalled the short running at their own end it is the bowler end umpire who will issue the penalty. other scoring of runs scoring of runs for boundaries or by the award of penalties are all dealt with under the appropriate laws. laws 18.6 and 18.7 list what those laws are although the numerous occasions under laws 41 and 42 are not separately listed. law 18.10 clarifies who is awarded runs when the ball is struck by and when not struck by the bat. this part of the law is more useful for scorers than umpires though it is crucial for matters of communication that umpires are aware of it. the law changed in 2017 so that byes and leg byes that are scored off no ball are no longer scored as multiple no ball but rather one no ball and the rest scored as byes or leg byes. this change does not affect the overall score or the result but rather how the runs are recorded. the recording of only the one run penalty for the no ball against the bowler and the remaining runs when not off the bat as byes or leg byes is fairer reflection of the number of no balls bowled than all runs not off the bat off no ball being scored as no balls against the bowler it is noted here that the scoring of any runs for byes off delivery that has been called wide ball remain as wides. batsmen crossing taken in conjunction with law 30 it will be seen that when the batsmen cross they ends. in addition to watching the crease for the completion of runs umpires must also watch whether the batsmen have crossed or not when they are running. it is not as difficult as it sounds. what precisely it means for batsmen to have crossed has not always been well defined. however it is important to note what it means for batsmen to have crossed it requires the whole of batsman person and bat to have passed the whole of their partner person and bat. that is to say if batsman trailing leg is not closer to the end he she is running to than his her partner entire body then the batsmen have not yet fully crossed. batsmen before they have crossed at all top left while they are in the process of crossing top right when they have nearly but not quite completely crossed bottom left and when they have fully crossed bottom right . whether the batsmen had already crossed or not at the crucial moment is an important consideration in the awarding of runs in deciding which batman is out and in deciding whether or not batsmen will continue to the ends they were approaching or be sent back. it is obvious in most cases particularly if it is remembered that batsmen who are level have not yet crossed. sending batsmen back or not if the ball becomes dead for any reason when the batsmen are running it is important that they are then directed to the correct ends. this is dealt with in laws 18.11 and 18.12 and in the definitions of original end meaning the end where the batsman was when the ball came into play and wicket he she has left meaning the wicket at the end where the batsman was at the start of the run in progress. there are two situations to consider 1. ball becomes dead without either batsman being dismissed there are several situations in which this can occur. two from many are the ball hitting helmet on the ground and the umpire calling dead ball for case of possible serious injury to player or umpire. the general principle here in law 18.12.2 is that each batsman goes to his her end. that is if at the instant the ball becomes dead the batsmen had already crossed they will continue to the ends they were approaching. if they had not already crossed they go back to the ends they had just left. law 18.11.2 sets out the only three to this principle. in two of these three cases the batsmen are to go to their original ends where they were when the ball came into play. the third is special case with its own instructions. cases for return to original ends boundary. most of the time the ball crosses the boundary andoror other boundary allowances determined before the toss is scored the ball becomes dead and the batsmen return to their original ends. the unusual situation of the batsmen running more than the boundary allowance is not included as an the reason for this and details of other boundary situations including boundary overthrows are dealt with under law 19 boundaries . disallowance of runs. as discussed above when runs are disallowed under the laws the batsmen are returned to their original ends. this does not apply to situations where incomplete runs are not counted such as accidental short runs but to situations where all runs by the batsman are to be disallowed. decision by batsman under law 41.5.9. in this case of deliberate distraction deception or obstruction by the fielding side the batsmen have the right to choose which of them will face the ne delivery. the umpire only responsibility is therefore to see that the batsmen know this. question which ends do you want to go to if necessary will achieve this. 2. batsman dismissed law 18.11 sets out the cases in which the not out batsman will return to his her original end while law 18.12 sets out the cases in which he she will go to his her end as determined by the batsmen having crossed or not. the following chart lists the various cases for each of the methods of dismissal. dismissal of batsman the not out batsman will return to stay at original end go on it crossed go back it not bowled caught hit the ball twice hit wicket lbw obstructing the field run out ne case striker who has runner himself herself run out stumped timed out if runs are to be disallowed the not out batsman always returns to his her original end it will be seen that for the striker who has runner those on the left are situations where in normal circumstances there is no opportunity for runs to be taken. field technique the need for the umpires to be aware of and watch the completion of each run is clear. to do that the bowler end umpire must move to one side ideally in line with the popping crease where he she can have view of the creases and of the wicket. the umpire will normally move to the side where the ball has been struck though this is not always the case there is more on positioning techniques in partlawand law 38 . as well as watching for the batsman grounding behind the crease he she must also know what is happening to the ball and what the fielders are doing. however the umpire must not forget to watch the batsmen whilst following the progress of the ball. an umpire must be able to adjudicate on any action at his her end such as an attempted run out and also assist the other umpire with information on other events. in addition the umpires must know whether or not the batsmen have already crossed at the appropriate moment. this moment might be the completion of catch the breaking of the wicket for successful run out the fielders throw in the case of boundary overthrow or the ball crossing the boundary if from observing the run of play an umpire sees that an attempted run out may be imminent at the other end then it will be for him her to watch for the batsmen crossing or not while his her colleague is judging the run out. with little practice rhythm can be built up to increase awareness of what is happening in the field to glance back at the crease at the right moment for the touch down and then look to see the batsmen cross. at the same time of course an umpire must position him herself so as not to be in the way of the fielder in the path of the throw in and always be aware of the location of the ball watching it as often as possible. scorers this law and the ne demand the ma cooperation and communication between umpires and scorers. the scorers have to work out what is going on by what they can see from great distance sometimes unable to hear any calls by the umpire. as well as the points where the law instructs the umpires to inform the scorers such as in short running the umpires should assist in every situation where there could be doubt. law 19 boundaries 19.1 determining the boundary of the field of play 9.1.1 before the toss the umpires shall determine the boundary of the field of play which shall be fi for the duration of the match. see law 2.3.1.4 consultation with captains . 9.1.2 the boundary shall be determined such that no part of any sight screen will at any stage of the match be within the field of play. 19.2 identifying and marking the boundary 9.2.1 wherever practicable the boundary shall be marked by means of continuous white line or by an object in contact with the ground. 9.2.2 if the boundary is marked by means of white line 19.2.2.1 the edge of the line nearest the pitch shall be the boundary. 19.2.2.2 an object such as flag post or board used merely to highlight the position of line marked on the ground must be placed beyond the boundary and is not itself to be regarded as being the boundary. 9.2.3 if the boundary is marked by means of an object that is in contact with the ground the boundary will be the edge of the grounded part of the object which is nearest the pitch. 9.2.4 where there is no white line or object providing continuous marking objects such as flags posts or boards may be used to mark specific points on the boundary. the boundary shall be the imaginary straight line on the ground joining the two nearest marked points. 9.2.5 boundary that cannot be identified as in 19.2.2. 19.23 or 19.2.4 shall be determined by the umpires before the toss. 9.2.6 an obstacle within the field of play other than as in 19.2.7 shall not be regarded as boundary unless so determined by the umpires before the toss. see law 23.1.4 consultation with captains . 9.2.7 person or animal coming onto the field of play while the ball is in play shall not be regarded as boundary unless the umpires determine otherwise at the time that contact between the ball and such person or animal is made. the decision shall be made for each separate occurrence. 19.3 restoring the boundary if solid object used to mark the boundary is disturbed for any reason then the boundary shall be considered to be in its original position. the object shall be returned to its original position as soon as is practicable if play is taking place this shall be as soon as the ball is dead. if some part of fence or other marker has come within the field of play that part shall be removed from the field of play as soon as is practicable if play is taking place this shall be as soon as the ball is dead. 19.4 ball grounded beyond the boundary 19.4.1 the ball in play is grounded beyond the boundary if it touches the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the boundary he ground beyond the boundary any object that is grounded beyond the boundary 19.4.2 the ball in play is to be regarded as being grounded beyond the boundary if fielder grounded beyond the boundary as in 19.5 touches the ball fielder after catching the ball within the boundary becomes grounded beyond the boundary while in contact with the ball before completing the catch. 19.5 fielder grounded beyond the boundary 19.5.1 fielder is grounded beyond the boundary if some part of his her person is in contact with any of the following the boundary or any part of an object used to mark the boundary the ground beyond the boundary any object that is in contact with the ground beyond the boundary another fielder who is grounded beyond the boundary if the umpire considers that it was the intention of either fielder that the contact should assist in the fielding of the ball. 19.5. 19.5.2 fielder who is not in contact with the ground is considered to be grounded beyond the boundary if his her final contact with the ground before his her first contact with the ball after it has been delivered by the bowler was not entirely within the boundary 19.6 boundary allowances 19.6.1 before the toss the umpires shall determine the runs to be allowed for boundaries with both captains. in deciding the allowances the umpires and captains shall be guided by the prevailing custom of the ground 19.6.2 19.6.2 unless determined differently under 19.61runs shall be allowed for boundaryandruns for boundary 4. see also 19.7. 19.7 runs scored from boundaries 19.7.1 boundarywill be scored if and only if the ball has been struck by the bat and is first grounded beyond the boundary without having been in contact with the ground within the field of play. this shall apply even the ball has previously touched fielder 19.7.2 boundarywill be scored when ball that is grounded beyond the boundary whether struck by the bat or not was first grounded within the boundary or has not been struck by the bat. 19.7.3 when boundary is scored the batting side in the circumstances of 19.8 shall be awarded whichever is the greater of 19.7.3.1 the allowance for the boundary 19.7.3.2 the runs completed by the batsmen together with the run in progress if they had already crossed at the instant the boundary is scored. 19.7.4 when the runs in 19.7.3.2 the boundary allowance they shall replace the boundary allowance for the purposes of law 18.12.2 batsman returning to wicket he she has left . 19.7.5 the scoring of penalty runs by either side is not affected by the scoring of boundary. 19.8 overthrow or wilful act of fielder if the boundary results from an overthrow or from the wilful act of fielder the runs scored shall be any runs for penalties awarded to either side and the allowance for the boundary and the runs completed by the batsmen together with the run in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the throw or act. law 18.12.2 batsman returning to wicket he she has left shall apply as from the instant of the throw or act. agreeing the boundary probably the most crucial part of the application of this law will take place before play starts when the umpires first inspect the ground and determine what the boundary of the field of play is. on some grounds the boundary will be clear and will be suitably marked by line or rope. on others it will be patchwork of stretch of wall an area of long grass or piece of picket fence where only the main posts are in contact with the ground and so on. just as the creases are edges so the boundary is an edge. it is the dividing line between the field of play and the world outside. at every point round the field there must be boundary edge to be this dividing line even if in some parts it is line to be imagined on the ground. law 19.2 sets out in great detail what that edge is to be for various possible types of marking. if in any section of the field none of those types of marking it is essential that the boundary edge in that section is clearly determined by the umpires and communicated to the captains. when the ball is trickling towards the long grass there must be clear definition of when it has reached the boundary. umpires should note the procedure if some part of physical boundary collapses and intrudes into the field of play. similarly if the boundary marking is disturbed during the fielding of ball it should be restored to its original position if possible as soon as the ball is dead but if not possible or not done immediately for whatever reason then the boundary remains as the original line. so if the ball goes into the area between the original boundary line and the disturbed markers it will have been deemed to have been grounded beyond it. the best type of boundary is clearly visible rope. if the boundary is fence then it is the innermost point of the bottom of the fence. however in this it may be more sensible to make the boundary the point at which the grass ends as shown by the red line. since it is only the innermost edge of the boundary marker which marks the boundary there is no problem with rope that overlaps in places. sight screens the sight screens must be completely outside of the boundary at all stages of the match. on small ground this may necessitate indenting the boundary in that area. if there is no white line and no rope then it is helpful if at least boards or flags can be put across in front of the screen. if there is such an indentation then it must be marked in such way that it will accommodate the screen in any possible position during the match as shown below . the boundary must not change when the screen is moved. obstacles there may be some grounds in company with the famous one at canterbury where there is tree entirely within the field of play. the umpires must decide before the toss whether or not fi objects are to be regarded as boundary. local custom often dictates this. having made decision they will inform the captains. if such an item is to be boundary then as soon as the ball in play touches it boundary is scored and the ball of course becomes dead. if it is not boundary then the ball remains in play after contact with it. note however that trees growing outside the boundary with branches overhanging the field of play are covered by the law since the whole of the tree is an object in contact with the ground outside the boundary edge . as soon as the ball touches any part of the tree boundary is scored. if the bail strikes tree which is overhanging the boundary like these ones are it is deemed to have crossed the boundary since the tree is grounded outside the boundary. law 19.2.7 states that obstacles such as an animal which has run onto the pitch should not automatically be counted as boundary. this applies similarly in grounds that are more public to people unconnected to the game walking across the field or spectators spilling onto the outfield. if the ball makes contact with any such animal or spectator the law puts the responsibility for deciding whether boundary has been scored with the umpires. they should make the decision at that time based on whether they believe the ball would more than likely have reached the boundary without the intervention. in some cases it will be obvious in others it will be less so. still judgment is required. allowances before the start of the match the umpires will determine the allowances for boundaries. the traditional allowances of four and six runs will apply in most cases. the boundary six is awarded only if the ball has been struck by the bat and only if it is first grounded beyond the boundary. it is permitted to agree different allowances. nearby glass building could be good reason for discouraging hits over the fence by having an allowance much lower than six. in making such judgments local customs are to be observed. although all determinations about boundary allowances are by the umpires they should attempt to work with the captains particularly where local customs . most importantly once agreement is made the scorers must be informed. scoring boundary boundary will be scored whenever the ball makes contact with the boundary or with the ground outside the field of play beyond the boundary edge or anything in contact with the ground outside the field of play including trees and fielders. where there is physical marking be it white line rope fence tufted grass or whatever it is to be appreciated that only the innermost edge of the object is the boundary edge. hence every part of the marking other than this innermost edge is outside the field of play. ball landing on the boundary line or rope or hitting boundary fence has made contact with something outside the boundary. if fielder who has any part of his her person in contact with the ball touches or goes beyond the boundary edge it is to be considered that the ball itself has done so. boundary will therefore have been scored whether boundaryor boundarywill depend on if the ball has been grounded or not before coming into contact with the fielder. fielder is not within the field of play if he she is either touching the boundary or grounded beyond the boundary therefore even if the fielder is standing with both feet inside the boundary line he she can be not within the field of play for if the fielder is touching the boundary fence. conversely it is possible for fielder to handle the ball or even take catch when he she is wholly or partly outside the boundary as long as he she is either standing inside the field of play merely leaning over but not touching the boundary or in some cases even in the air beyond the boundary further of this later . once the ball is grounded over the boundary on its own or in contact with fielder boundary is scored and the ball is dead whatever happens after the taking of catch while going outside the boundary has become both more commonplace and more complicated in recent years but the law has been simplified and rationalised it is now wholly and clearly set out in this law rather than across laws 19 and 32 as was previously the case. the fielder has both his feet inside the boundary but his knee is in contact with the fence. the fielder and therefore the ball are thus grounded outside the boundary the important moment for any fielder is the last time they were touching the ground before they first touch the ball. if that is within the field of play and they never touch the ball whilst grounded outside the field of play they may fairly go over the boundary and touch the ball in order to prevent it crossing the boundary or to complete catch. that applies not only to the first fielder to touch the ball but to any fielder involved in the taking of catch the first time each fielder touches the ball they must be grounded wholly inside the boundary or if they are in the air they must have taken off from wholly within the boundary. of course for catch to be completed the ball must never touch the ground inside or outside the boundary and no fielder must ever be grounded outside the boundary while in contact with the ball. the ball is over the boundary but it is not grounded because the fielder is grounded fully inside the rope neither he nor the ball are deemed to be outside the boundary. while the fielder will catch the ball before it crosses the rope because his foot is touching the boundary he and the ball will be deemed to be grounded outside. umpires must be clear about the meaning of all the phrases in this law. the law defines in detail what is meant by touching the boundary and grounded beyond the boundary. they are crucial to the scoring of boundary and the runs awarded for it. note in particular that pitching beyond the boundary does not necessarily imply landing on the ground as long as there is contact with some object that is in contact with ground in the world outside the field of play. ball landing on the pavilion roof has pitched beyond the boundary. in the same way until the ball comes into contact with something beyond the boundary boundary has not been scored. the ball is still in play. it can be fielded or even caught if other conditions are right. the ball has passed over the fence it has not yet touched anything grounded outside. boundary has not been scored. the ball is still in play. the same is true even though it has passed through fence. it does not matter that the ball has crossed the bound ary. neither the ball nor the fielder is grounded beyond the boundary the ball is still in play and can be fielded or caught. runs scored although law 19.6 is of principal interest to scorers umpires must also note and understand its provisions since they have to satisfy themselves as to the correctness of the scores. if the ball reaches the boundary when no ball or wide has been called then the boundary allowance is added to the one run penalty. for wide this will be scored as five wides though for no ball everything aside from the one run penalty will be scored as runs byes or leg byes. if the batsmen run more than the number allowed for the boundary before the ball reaches it then they will score as many as they have run. it should be noted that the run in progress will count as one run if they had already crossed by the time the ball reached the boundary. if for instance they had run four and crossed on the fifth at the moment the ball crossed the line not only would they have all five runs but the score would no longer be regarded as boundary although the ball would nevertheless become dead and they would not return to their original ends. any penalties would not be affected. overthrows in the normal situation when boundary is scored the boundary allowance replaces any runs that the batsmen may have completed. if they have run and crossed on more runs than the boundary allowance these runs replace the allowance as discussed above. if however the ball crosses the boundary as the result of an overthrow both the batsmen runs and the allowance are scored. an overthrow is difficult to define but easy to see on the field. generally speaking it is throw by fielder that gives the batsmen opportunity to score further runs. ball thrown by fielder that goes over the boundary whether thrown to hit the stumps and missing or slipping out of his her hand and going over the boundary behind him her is boundary overthrow. if there is an obstacle within the field of play that has been designated boundary fielder throw hitting it will be boundary overthrow. if there is tree overhanging the boundary for and the fielder throw just touches branch on the way to the wicket keeper that will be boundary overthrow. often the ball will travel long way from the throw before it reaches the boundary. meanwhile the batsmen may have completed further runs. the runs that count and the ends to which the batsmen are to go are determined by where they were when the ball was thrown another important reason for the umpires to watch for the batsmen crossing on every run. there may be more than one throw. fielder throws the ball and misses the stumps. the batsmen run one. another fielder picks up the ball on the far side and throws it. this time it goes to the boundary unhindered. the counting of runs and decision on going back not is to be taken from the moment of the last throw the second one in this . wilful act of fielder it is rare for fielder wilfully to kick the ball over the boundary in the mistaken belief that by giving away boundary he she can dictate which batsman will take ne strike. nevertheless if he she does so then it counts as boundary overthrow as above. the words wilful and act are both significant. it will not count as boundary overthrow if the fielder accidentally pushes the ball over nor if he she deliberately refrains from stopping the ball to let it cross the boundary under its own impetus. there can occasionally be confusion if fielder believing he she has taken catch throws the ball over the boundary in celebration. if the catch had indeed been completed then it will stand. however if unnoticed by the fielder the umpire had called no ball then the ball is still in play and the throwing of it over the boundary is wilful act. thus overthrows would be awarded the only way that boundaryoverthrows can be scored as well as the runs completed the run in progress if the batsmen had crossed before the throw and the one run penalty for the no ball. field technique 1. judging boundary it will often be difficult for an umpire to know whether the ball actually reached and crossed the boundary edge or not. he she will be long way from it. his her colleague may have been nearer to that bit of boundary and could help and on occasion fielders may also be helpful although it is not sensible to overly rely on their evidence. it is prudent when inspecting the ground before the match to note any landmarks near the boundary such as advertisement boards seating flagpoles etc which help to pinpoint where the line actually is. the umpire must do his her best using all evidence available. 2. signalling to the scorers when boundary is scored there may be other signals to be made to the scorers as well as the boundary. perhaps no ball has been called or there are other penalties. although for six or wide there will be no ambiguity the scorers will certainly want to know in the case of no ball whether the ball came off the bat or not. if boundary results from no ball then after repeating the no ball signal further signal of bye leg bye or no further signal at all followed by the boundary signal will clearly communicate what has happened. the umpire should make each signal separately in the order that events took place so if for no ball that hits the pad and goes to the boundary for four leg byes the umpire will first signal no ball then leg byes and then the boundary. law 20 dead ball 20.1 ball is dead 20.1.1 the ball becomes dead when 20.1.1.1 it is finally settled in the hands of the wicket keeper or of the bowler. 20.1.1.2 boundary is scored. see law 19.7 runs scored from boundaries . 20.1.1.3 batsman is dismissed. the ball will be deemed to be dead from the instant of the incident causing the dismissal. 20.1.1.4 whether played or not it becomes trapped between the bat and person of batsman or between items of his her clothing or equipment. 20.1.1.5 whether played or not it lodges in the clothing or equipment of batsman or the clothing of an umpire 20.1.1.6 under either of laws 24.4 player returning without permission or 28.2 fielding the ball there is an offence resulting in an award of penalty runs. the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.1.1.7 there is contravention of law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 20.1.1.8 the match is concluded in any of the ways stated in law 12.9 conclusion of match . 20.1.2 the ball shall be considered to be dead when it is clear to the bowler end umpire that the fielding side and both batsmen at the wicket have ceased to regard it as in play. 20.2 ball finally settled whether the ball is finally settled or not is matter for the umpire alone to decide 20.3 call of over or time neither the call of over see law 174 nor the call of time see law 12.2 is to be made until the ball is dead either under 20.1 or under 20.4 20.4 umpire calling and signalling dead ball 20.4.1 when the ball has become dead under 20.1 the bowler end umpire may call and signal dead ball if it is necessary to inform the players. 20.4.2 either umpire shall call and signal dead ball when 20.4.2.1 intervening in case of unfair play. 20.4.2.2 possibly serious injury to player or umpire occurs. 20.4.2.3 leaving his her normal position for consultation. 20.4.2.4 one or both bails fall from the striker wicket before the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball. 20.4.2.5 the striker is not ready for the delivery of the ball and if the ball is delivered makes no attempt to play it. provided the umpire is satisfied that the striker had adequate reason for not being ready the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.6 the striker is distracted by any noise or movement or in any other way while preparing to receive or receiving delivery. this shall apply whether the source of the distraction is within the match or outside it. note also 20.4.2.7. the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.7 there is an instance of deliberate attempt to distract under either of laws 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker or 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman . the ball shall not count as one of the over. 20.4.2.8 the bowler drops the ball accidentally before delivery . 20.4.2.9 the ball does not leave the bowler hand for any reason other than an attempt to run out the non striker under law 41.16 non striker leaving his her ground early . 20.4.2.10 satisfied that the ball in play cannot be recovered. 20.4.2.11 required to do so under any of the laws not included above. 20.5 ball ceases to be dead the ball ceases to be dead that is it comes into play when the bowler starts his her run up or if there is no run up starts his her bowling action. 20.6 dead ball ball counting as one of over 20.6.1 when ball which has been delivered is called dead or is to be considered dead then other than as in 20.6.2 20.6.1.1 it will not count in the over if the striker has not had an opportunity to play it. 20.6.1.2 unless no ball or wide ball has been called it will be valid ball if the striker has had an opportunity to play it in the circumstances of 20.4.2.6 and laws 244 player returning without permission 28.2 fielding the ball 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker and 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman . 20.6.2 in 20.4.25 the ball will not count in the over only if both conditions of not attempting to play the ball and having an adequate reason for not being ready are met. otherwise the delivery will be valid ball. play is in progress for the whole period from call of play until the ne call of time as in law 12. the ball is not continuously in play the opposite of being dead the word alive to mean the opposite of dead never appears in the laws of cricket during this period. the ball is brought into play each time bowler starts his her run up or action in the absence of run up to deliver the ball. it remains in play until all activity from that delivery is halted either automatically or by action from the umpires and is then dead until ne brought into play for the following delivery. when the ball is dead even though play is in progress runs cannot be scored and batsmen cannot be dismissed. it is however not quite total absence of activity. include that an appeal can be made while the ball is dead and some breaches of laws which give rise to 5penalty runs or breaches under law 42 which can take place whilst the ball is dead will still apply. dead ball there are three ways that the ball becomes dead. 1. automatically law 20.1.1 lists incidents in which the ball becomes dead without action by the umpire. sometimes however the players or the other umpire will not be aware that the ball has become dead and it is then sensible for the umpire to call and signal dead ball. this is specifically permitted in law 20.4.1. usually it will be entirely clear when the ball has become automatically dead if the ball crosses the boundary the moment at which the ball crosses the boundary is laid down in law 19 or the batsman is out bowled. however there are three instances in which it may be more complicated the umpire will have to judge when the ball is finally settled in the hands of the wicket keeper or the bowler. obvious situations are the bowler receiving the ball from fielder and starting to walk back to his her mark the wicket keeper taking the ball after it has passed the batsman and tossing it without any urgency to fielder. not all situations are as clear cut as these normally the urgency or otherwise with which the bowler or wicket keeper acts will be good guide however it is the umpire opinion not the players that matters here. if the umpire considers the ball is finally settled then it is dead even if one or more of the players subsequently believe it to be in play key distinction with law 20.1.2 discussed below . ii law 20.1.2 when the ball may become dead automatically if all the players cease to regard it as in play. note that it is still the judgment of the bowler end umpire that matters but now that umpire is deciding not whether the ball has finally settled but whether all the players believe the ball is dead. in that case the ball is dead even if the umpire him herself would not have deemed it finally settled. this can get complicated but the principle remains that if single player on the field believes the ball is still in play then it cannot be dead under this part of the law though for clarity it should be re stated that it could be dead if finally settled under 20.1.1.1 . this is particularly important at the end of match. if the fielding team believe they have won but the batting side continue running then law 20.1.2 cannot be used to determine that the ball is dead. the fact that the batsmen have continued means not all the players regard it is as dead though again it may be dead under 20.1.1.1 or 20.1.1.8 . often batsman will seek clarification from the fielder holding the ball that he she considers the ball is dead nod of approval for before leaving his her ground. should this approval be given it is reasonable for the batsman to consider the ball dead the fielder with the ball having accounted for his her team as whole. iii law 31 defines the difference between being out and being dismissed. if the batsman is out but not dismissed the ball will remain in play. if the batsman is dismissed the ball will have been dead from the moment he she was out. for there is an appeal for lbw. if the appeal is upheld but not otherwise the ball will be dead from the moment the ball made contact with the striker person even though by the time the umpire has weighed up the evidence and made his her decision second or two has elapsed. any run attempted during that second or two will not be allowed and the not out batsman should be returned to his her original end. nb law 20.1.1.4 and law 20.1.1.5 talk about the ball being trapped and the ball lodging respectively. there is difference between becoming trapped and lodging. if the ball is trapped say between bat and pad it could possibly fall out. in order to decide that it is trapped the umpire must be sure that there has been period of time even if it is only very short one during which the ball was held there. lodging say in the top of batsman pad means that it will take positive action to free it. it should also be noted here that the ball lodging in the worn helmet or equipment of fielder or the wicket keeper is not dead. 2. to be called dead by an umpire law 20.4.2 lists incidents in which an umpire is to call and signal dead ball to make the ball dead. in each case it is to be either umpire. it will be the umpire who first sees the incident. the reason for calling dead ball is to prevent further action of any kind by either side. such further action might be for fielder attempting to dismiss batsman. again most of these are self and some are dealt with elsewhere but as some need further attention it is worth going through this section of the law clause by clause. 20.4.2.1 intervening in case of unfair play is dealt with in law 41 and for unacceptable conduct under law 42. 20.4.2.2 if either umpire thinks that an injury might be serious he she must call and signal dead ball straightaway. umpires are not usually in position to know for sure whether someone has sustained serious injury or not. it is for this reason that this law provides for call and signal of dead ball in the event of possibly serious injury. 20.4.2.3 if there is the need for umpires to consult and one umpire decides that signals between him herself and the other umpire are not enough to resolve any doubt he she may go to meet his her colleague. if the doubt relates to an appeal that will not yet been answered so it might mean that the ball is not yet dead. therefore any potential unfair action must be pre empted before leaving his her position the umpire must call and signal dead ball. 20.4.2.4 if one or both bails fall from the striker wicket it is not intact and will disadvantage the fielding side in attempting dismissal. 20.4.2.5 law 20.4.2.5 relates only to the striker not being ready. if he she is distracted at any point after the ball comes into play 20.4.2.6 applies. these two clauses have similarities and are often confused but must be treated separately. if in spite of drawing back to indicate that he she was not ready the striker attempts to play the ball he she will lose the protection afforded by this piece of law. despite this the umpire should not wait to see if the striker does play at the ball if the striker backs away the umpire should call and signal dead ball as soon as possible. the umpire cannot undo this call so it is only if mistakenly the umpire has not made the call immediately and then the batsman plays at it that the proviso about batsman playing the ball will come into force. the umpire will often not know why the striker was not ready but should call and signal dead ball nevertheless to prevent an unfair dismissal in case the withdrawal was justified. the umpires might in some circumstances form the opinion that it was ruse by the striker to waste time. this would be serious act of unfair play to be dealt with as laid down in law 41.10. 20.4.2.6 the striker is considered to be preparing to receive the ball as soon as it comes into play and has not finished receiving it until he she has played or played at it or has had the opportunity to play it. anything that the umpire considers has distracted the striker during this period requires call and signal of dead ball. the distraction may be innocent sudden yelp from close fielder stung by bee or bird flying across the pitch. it may even not be connected with the game coming from outside the boundary or overhead. on the other hand it can be deliberate attempt by fielder to unsettle the striker in which case it is covered by 20.4.2.7. whatever the cause the first response is to call and signal dead ball. further action will have to follow if the distraction was deliberate one. 20.4.2.7 law 41.4 deals with deliberate attempts to distract the striker and law 41.5 with deliberate attempt to distract deceive or obstruct either batsman. they are discussed more fully under law 41. the point to note here is that they are two of the six to the general principle that ball called or becoming dead will count in the over if the striker had the opportunity to play it. law 20.6 lists all these six . 20.4.2.8 this is usually self evident and normally it is clear when the ball has been dropped and not delivered. however sometimes if before the usual point of delivery the ball is released accidentally by the bowler but still travels forward it will be difficult for the umpire to decide if it has been dropped and is thus dead or is delivery. often these deliveries are long way from the striker and would be wide or even no ball it is for the umpire to determine whether they consider the ball was actually delivered. if the ball is released at the right place and time but goes astray it should be treated as being delivered. if something is clearly wrong about the release particularly if it is done too early the umpire should call and signal dead ball. 20.4.2.9 the ball is to be called dead immediately if the bowler does not let go of it during the delivery. however in attempting to run out the non striker the bowler may try to put down the non striker wicket with the ball in hand rather than throwing it at the stumps. dead ball is not to be called unless the attempt fails as described in law 41.16. or perhaps the bowler may stop in his her run up or go through their whole action and then not release the ball. then dead ball is to be called. particular case relating to the striker putting his her own wicket down and the bowler subsequently not releasing the ball is dealt with under law 35.2. 20.4.2.10 the ball in play will be called dead when the umpire decides it cannot be recovered within the field of play. this is rare event even in recreational cricket when the ball might fall down football goalpost hole or an animal burrow and is unlikely to occur on modern grounds and even less often the higher up the game you go. the inclusion of this dead ball situation replaces the old lost ball scenario. 20.4.2.11 other laws in which an umpire is required to call and signal dead ball are listed below. in each case it is stated in the law whether either umpire is to make the call and signal or whether particular umpire is to do so. law 17.8 bowler incapacitated or suspended during an over law 21.8 ball coming to rest in front of striker wicket law 21.9 fielder intercepting delivery law 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded law 25.7 restriction on the striker runner law 27.4 movement by wicket keeper law 28.5 restrictions on actions of wicket keeper law 28.6 movement by any fielder other than the wicket keeper law 37.7 batsman leaving the wicket under misapprehension law 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once law 35.1.2 out hit wicket law 35.2 not out hit wicket law 41.2 unfair actions law 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side law 41.15 striker in protected area law 41.16 non striker leaving his her ground early law 41.17 batsmen stealing run law 42.1 unacceptable conduct whether ball is to count or not it is important that the umpire knows whenvalid balls have been bowled so that he she does sot allow too many or too few deliveries in an over. the final section of this law states quite clearly when ball that has become or been made dead is valid and when it is not. the basic determining factor is whether or not the striker has had the opportunity to play the ball there are as noted earlier under law 20.4.2.7 six to this principle. they are listed in law 206. each is also noted in its own law and law 20.1 and law 20.4. umpires must know what these are. law 21 no ball 21.1 mode of delivery 21.1.1 the umpire shall ascertain whether the bowler intends to bowl right handed or left handed over or round the wicket and shall so inform the striker. it is unfair if the bowler fails to notify the umpire of change in his her mode of delivery. in this case the umpire shall call and signal no ball. 21.1.2 underarm bowling shall not be permitted by special agreement before the match 21.2 fair delivery the arm for delivery to be fair in respect of the arm the ball must not be thrown. ball is fairly delivered in respect of the arm if once the bowler arm has reached the level of the shoulder in the delivery swing the elbow joint is not straightened partially or completely from that instant until the ball has left the hand. this definition shall not debar bowler from fle or rotating the wrist in the delivery swing. although it is the primary responsibility of the striker end umpire to assess the fairness of delivery in this respect there is nothing in this law to debar the bowler end umpire from calling and signalling no ball if he she considers that the ball has been thrown. 21.3 ball thrown or delivered underarm action by umpires 21.3.1 after the bowler has entered his her delivery stride if in the opinion of either umpire the ball has been thrown or unless permitted by agreement in 21.1.2. delivered underarm that umpire shall call and signal no ball and when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. inform the batsmen at the wicket of what has occurred. 21.3.2 if either umpire considers that in that innings further delivery by the same bowler is thrown or unless permitted by agreement in 21.1.2. delivered underarm he she shall call and signal no ball and when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall then direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. the over shall if applicable be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled the previous over or part thereof nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the bowler thus suspended shall not bowl again in that innings. inform the batsmen at the wicket and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. 21.3.3 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 21.4 bowler throwing towards striker end before delivery if the bowler throws the ball towards the striker end before entering the delivery stride either umpire shall call and signal no ball. see law 41.17 batsmen stealing run . however the procedure stated in 21.3 of first and final warning informing action against the bowler and reporting shall not apply. 21.5 fair delivery the feet for delivery to be fair in respect of the feet in the delivery stride 21.5.1 the bowler back foot must land within and not touching the return crease appertaining to his her stated mode of delivery. the bowler front foot must land with some part of the foot whether grounded or raised on the same side of the imaginary line joining the two middle stumps as the return crease described in 21.5.1. and behind the popping crease if the bowler end umpire is not satisfied that all of these three conditions have been met he she shall call and signal no ball. see law 418 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball . 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball if the ball is delivered and if the non striker is not dismissed under law 4116 non striker leaving his her ground early either umpire shall call and signal no ball if the bowler breaks the wicket at any time after the ball comes into play and before completion of the stride after the delivery stride. this shall include any clothing or other object that falls from his her person and breaks the wicket. see appendix .12 laws 20428 20.4.29 umpire calling and signalling dead ball and 21.12 will apply. 21.7 ball bouncing more than once rolling along the ground or pitching off the pitch the umpire shall call and signal no ball if ball which he she considers have been delivered without having previously touched bat or person of the striker. bounces more than once or rolls along the ground before it reaches the popping crease or pitches wholly or partially off the pitch as defined in law 6.1 area of pitch before it reaches the line of the striker wicket. when non turf pitch is being used this will apply to any ball that wholly or partially pitches off the artificial surface. 21.8 ball coming to rest in front of striker wicket if ball delivered by the bowler comes to rest in front of the line of the striker wicket without having previously touched the bat or person of the striker the umpire shall call and signal no ball and immediately call and signal dead ball. 21.9 fielder intercepting delivery if in the circumstances of law 273 position of wicket keeper ball delivered by the bowler makes contact with any part of fielder person before it either makes contact with the striker bat or person or it passes the striker wicket the umpire shall call and signal no ball and immediately call and signal dead ball. 21.10 ball bouncing over head height of striker the umpire shall call and signal no ball for any delivery which after pitching passes or would have passed over head height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease. 21.11 call of no ball for infringement of other laws in addition to the instances above no ball is to be called and signalled as required by the following laws. law 27.3 position of wicket keeper law 28.4 limitation of on side fielders law 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch law 41.6 bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries law 41.7 bowling of dangerous and unfair non pitching deliveries law 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball 21.12 revoking call of no ball an umpire shall revoke the call of no ball if dead ball is called under any of laws 20.4.2.4 20.4.2.5. 20.4.2.6 20.4.2.8 or 20.4.2.9 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . 21.13 no ball to over ride wide call of no ball shall over ride the call of wide ball at any time. see laws 22.1 judging wide and 22.2 call and signal of wide ball . 21.14 ball not dead the ball does not become dead on the call of no ball. 21.15 penalty for no ball penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of no ball. unless the call is revoked the penalty shall stand even if batsman is dismissed. it shall be in addition to any other runs scored any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties. 21.16 runs resulting from no ball how scored the one run penalty shall be scored as no ball and shall be debited against the bowler. if other penalty runs have been awarded to either side these shall be scored as stated in law 41.18 penalty runs . any runs completed by the batsmen or any boundary allowance shall be credited to the striker if the ball has been struck by the bat otherwise they shall also be scored as byes or leg byes as appropriate. 21.17 no ball not to count no ball shall not count as one of the over. see law 17.3 validity of balls . 21.18 out from no ball when no ball has been called neither batsman shall be out under any of the laws 34 hit the ball twice 37 obstructing the field or 38 run out . no ball is delivery which places the batsman receiving the ball at some disadvantage or is potentially dangerous. the offences which merit call of no ball are all concerned with the delivery of the ball unfairness by the bowler in the actual delivery where the fielders are at the instant of delivery how the ball behaves after it is delivered. unfairness by the bowler in the actual delivery. 1. mode of delivery when bowler first comes on to bowl the umpire must find out what his her mode of delivery is and tell the striker. the terms over the wicket and round the wicket are in appendix .9.1. some bowlers have most of their run up crossing diagonally behind the umpire from one side to the other. what counts is which side he she is when passing the wicket. when the bowler wishes to change his her mode of delivery after commencing that spell he she is responsible for advising the umpire as to his her mode of delivery. if bowler changes their mode of action without such notification the umpire is to call and signal no ball as soon as the bowler delivers the ball. 2. the bowler feet although this is not ne in the law it is appropriate to consider the bowler feet alongside the mode of delivery this law applies to the bowler delivery stride there is one restriction on the back foot and two restrictions on the front foot. it should be noted that the foot in this case means the bottom of the foot which in reality is the underside of the shoe. it is quite possible that should the bottom of the front foot land in front of and not touching the popping crease some of the ankle or protrusion on the back of the boot might be behind the crease this is not enough to make it legal delivery. these restrictions are set out clearly in 21.5. they are independent of each other. for the back foot its position in relation to the popping crease is immaterial. equally it does not matter if the front foot crosses the return crease. simple description is that as each foot lands the back foot must not have any part grounded on or beyond the return crease the front foot must have some part of the underside of the boot behind the popping crease even if that part of the foot is raised. the front foot must also have some part on the correct side of an imaginary line joining the two middle stumps. any movement of either foot after it has landed is irrelevant. the bowler is bowling left arm over the wicket. this is no ball as the bowler front foot is entirely the wrong side of the middle stump. in every case the umpire must be satisfied of the legality of where the bowler feet land in the delivery stride. it is not an offence for bowler to bowl from behind the umpire this will not happen often but does occur from time to time. in those situations the umpire cannot see the bowler back foot so must make judgment about whether he she is satisfied that the bowler back foot has landed inside the return crease. fair delivery with respect to the feet. the back foot has landed within the return crease the front foot has landed with raised part behind the popping crease no ball. the front foot has landed with heel on the crease marking. no part of it is behind the crease. the back foot has landed early although overhanging the realm crease it is not touching it. an umpire must be aware that the bowler is running up and be prepared to call and signal no ball immediately if he she sees one of the bowler feet incorrectly placed. if the bowler bowls ball from behind the umpire such that the back foot is out of view and the umpire is not satisfied that it landed within the return crease the umpire should call and signal no ball. there may be rare occasions when the umpire believes bowler has deliberately bowled no ball perhaps to deny batsman milestone or even to intimidate the opposition. this meets the requirements of no ball under law 21.5 but is more serious of unfair play and thus dealt with under law 41.8. 3. the bowler arm whether bowler bowls the ball which is fair or throws it which is unfair has been matter of controversy for years. the difference is in the last part of the delivery swing. limits are set out for this last part of the swing. in simple terms bowler delivery action involves transferring his her arm from behind the body to point in front and then releasing the ball. this transfer is usually though not necessarily with the arm close to his her head. the ball must be above shoulder level before it is released or the delivery will be deemed unfair as underarm bowling which will be dealt with in the same way as throwing. the last part of the swing that is crucial to the fairness of the delivery starts when the arm reaches shoulder level behind him her continues as he she brings his her arm over and lasts until the ball is released. during that time the bowler elbow joint must not straighten or partially straighten. many bowlers start this part of the swing with straight elbow and keep it so. such bowlers present no problem. for other bowlers however the arm may be bent during this time. in order for the delivery to be fair it has to be judged that the arm does not straighten in the bowling swing. it will usually be the striker end umpire who is better placed to see this but either umpire may make the judgment. should either of them consider that during the final part of the swing the bowler arm is bent at the elbow and before release of the ball it becomes straight or even just somewhat straighter or if the ball is delivered underarm the relevant umpire will call and signal no ball as soon as possible. the umpire must take appropriate actions including cautioning the bowler for first offence and if that bowler either repeats such action or bowls any further delivery underarm will suspend the bowler for the rest of the innings. 4. special case very rarely if the striker appears to be advancing well up the pitch the bowler will try to run the striker out and is permitted to do so. he she throws the ball in the general direction of the striker wicket the umpire does not have to guess the bowler intention. if the bowler makes such throw after entering the delivery stride there is nothing to distinguish it from any other throw. no ball is to be called with all the consequences of that call. if however the bowler throws before entering his her delivery stride whilst the call of no ball is still to be made with its one run penalty the sanctions laid down in 21.3 are not to be applied. if the batsman is not just advancing up the pitch but the two batsmen are attempting to steal run while the bowler is running up law 41.17 will apply. where the fielders are at the instant of delivery there are restrictions on the position of the wicket keeper on the positions of the fielders on the on leg side of the wicket behind the popping crease and on the positions of fielders close to the pitch. these are dealt with in laws 27 and 28. if any of these laws are broken there must be call and signal of no ball from the striker end umpire in the first two cases and the bowler end umpire in the third. fielder intercepting delivery this law prevents any fielder other than the wicket keeper from making contact with the ball before it has made contact with the striker bat or person or has passed the striker wicket. it should not be confused with the restrictions on the wicket keeper from taking the ball in front of the wicket which is covered in law 27.3 this might happen because ball is bowled wide and hits fielder who is fielding close to but not encroaching on the pitch. had the ball not hit the fielder it would land off the pitch and be no ball any way. clearly this law also applies if the interception is deliberate even if the ball may not have reached the striker. breaking the wicket while delivering the ball law 21.6 is long clause but is actually very simple. if in delivering the ball the bowler person clothing or other object falling from the bowler breaks the wicket at the bowler end in the run up delivery stride or first foot placement of the follow through the umpire should call and signal no ball. this would not apply however if the bowler runs out or attempts to run out non striker who has left his her ground early under law 41.16 or if the bowler drops or fails to release the ball thus making it dead. how the ball behaves after it is delivered balls which after pitching rear up so high as to be likely to inflict injury on the striker are often known as bouncers. those which without pitching reach the popping crease at dangerous height are usually referred to as beamers. they are dealt with in laws 41.6 and 41.7 where they are defined and the action to be taken if they are delivered is discussed in detail. in addition although not dangerous it is considered unfair if 1. before reaching the popping crease the ball bounces more than once or rolls along the ground or pitches off the pitch or on or beyond the join of an artificial pitch or 2. before reaching the line of the striker wicket the ball comes to halt without in each case having touched the striker bat or person. umpires should note this last proviso if the ball strikes the batsman before any of these events occur then these are no longer relevant. 3. ball that has pitched and then passes or would have passed above the head height of the striker if he she were standing upright on the popping crease is considered unfair. however such deliveries may by their frequency become unreasonable and then would be considered for further action under law 41.6.2. in each of these three cases the bowler end umpire calls and signals no ball as the offence occurs. in addition to that call in the case of law 21.8 the ball coming to halt the bowler end umpire also immediately calls and signals dead ball to prevent the striker from playing the ball once it has stopped. penalties for no ball as stated earlier no ball puts the striker at some disadvantage. the law compensates the batsman in three ways. penalty of one run is awarded to the batting side in addition to any runs accruing in any other way from that delivery. the one run penalty will always be scored as no ball . the other runs will be recorded just as they would have been if no ball had not been called. it used to be that byes and leg byes scored in this scenario would be counted as part of the no ball penalty but this is no longer the case the scorers should note one no ball and as many byes or leg byes as would otherwise have been scored. the umpire should repeat the no ball signal to the scorers followed by the bye or leg bye signal as appropriate. the striker is immune from dismissal in any of the ways for which the bowler gets credit. the three ways in which he she can be out from no ball are set out in 21.18. umpires and scorers must be familiar with which ones they are. the ball does not count in the over so unless the umpire has mistakenly already allowed the over to continue aftervalid balls have been bowled see law 17.5.2 another delivery must be made. both umpires should adjust their counters to take account of this. no ball to over ride wide if ball meets the conditions for both no ball and wide the call of no ball is to stand it cannot be both wide and no ball. this is simply because no ball offers batsman greater protection and allows the striker to hit the ball while still being protected from most forms of dismissal. so for an short pitched delivery going over the batsman head might attract an unorthodox risky shot from the batsman it is not sufficiently within reach for him her to be able to hit it with normal cricket stroke even though it would otherwise meet the basic criteria for wide being out of the batsman usual reach the law states that it is called no ball so that even if the striker makes contact he she is protected from being out from most forms of dismissal. note that some playing conditions most notably most international cricket dictate that such deliveries are deemed to be wides rather than no balls but this is not the case in law. ball not dead the call for no ball should be made as soon as an umpire notices that the offence has been committed. in general the ball does not become dead on the call of no ball. however if the ball is subsequently called dead either to protect the striker or because the ball is not actually delivered then the umpire must revoke that call. note that if the ball is called dead for other reasons the call of no ball will not be revoked. however it would not be appropriate to revoke no ball call which resulted in penalty to the batting side or not to warn or suspend bowler for dangerous or unfair delivery. note that delivery is no ball from the moment of the infringement not the point at which the umpire calls it so. this is different from wide. field technique because the ball does not become dead on the call of no ball both umpires must therefore continue to watch the course of play until the ball is dead. no signalling to the scorers is possible during this time. although the call and signal of no ball is made as soon as possible after the offence it is to inform only the players and the other umpire. it must be loud enough for everyone on the field to hear it. the signal without the call is repeated to the scorers with any others that may be needed when the ball is dead. it of course requires acknowledgement. although much of what follows refers to action under other laws it is set out here as description of the umpires technique every time the ball comes into play is delivered. received and possibly played by the striker. 1. the striker end umpire before the ball comes into play the striker end umpire should check the positions of the on side fielders to see that there are no more than two behind the popping crease. if there are or if there is any possibility that one of the deep fielders on the on side might stray over the line he she should move to the off side. the striker end umpire must not risk the embarrassment of contravention by fielder that he she cannot see. he she will also check the position of the wicket keeper. the striker end umpire will then watch the bowler arm action. whether he she thinks it is fair or whether he she calls and signals no ball because the ball is thrown he she must immediately switch attention to the striker the creases and the stumps. if the wicket keeper is standing close to the wicket the striker end umpire must watch him her too. it is unnecessary and indeed can be disastrous to watch the ball travel through the air. nor should he she adjust his her view to specifically watch to see if the wicket keeper moves from standing back to close position. the striker end umpire must fix his her eyes ready for the arrival of the ball. because he she is watching that area closely it will be obvious if the wicket keeper has come close to the stumps from further back. he she must be ready to call and signal no ball if there is contravention by the fielders or the wicket keeper. the striker end umpire may need to adjudicate on stumping or rum out. he she must be ready to assist the other umpire if necessary with information about how the wicket was broken whether catch carried and so on. further stages of the striker end umpire role in the ball is played into the outfield are discussed under law 38. 2. the bowlers end umpire as the bowler begins his her run up the umpire will check the positions of the fielders close to the pitch. he she must then be ready to watch the bowler feet from when the landing of the back foot starts the delivery stride until the landing of the front foot completes it. it is essential that the umpire has clear view of the landing of the bowler feet which may not always be in the same place. the umpire must control his her breathing to be completely ready to call no ball at once if he she sees either foot land illegally. he she will signal as he she calls. with the umpire focussing his her eyes on the feet placement should no ball be called here it is completely understandable to have to revoke the call of no ball if for some reason the bowler does not deliver the ball. the umpire should not feel embarrassed in this situation as it is impossible to watch these two events simultaneously. as soon as the umpire has seen the foot placements whether fair or not he she must pick up the flight of the ball as quickly as possible in order to be able to see and judge events at the striker end. if the umpire moves his her head to change view from the feet to the ball it will take little longer for the eyes to focus on the ne target. the change must be achieved by merely swivelling the eyes without head movement. it is therefore usual to stand some way back from the stumps. each umpire must find the best position for him herself. the umpire must also be clearly aware of the line wicket to wicket that is the line joining the two middle stumps. to achieve this he she should stand with the head directly in this line and so that he she can see both sets of stumps. to accommodate both these needs will require an umpire of average height to be at leastfeet behind the stumps but taller umpire will wish to be further back. recently the rise in power hitting means that many umpires will choose to stand further back to give themselves more time to react to and move out of the way of powerful straight shot. each umpire will choose the distance that is comfortable for his her height and is safe given their own reaction times. the once popular method of bending over in order to view both sets of stumps places too much strain on the back to be sensible. moreover it foreshortens the view of the pitch which is certainly not desirable for judging distances. again the umpire role in events after the potential call of no ball until the ball is dead is discussed under more appropriate laws. when the ball is dead the relevant signals are to be made to the scorers remembering the order for signals is generally the order in which the incidents happened. the responsibility for all such communication with the scorers lies with the bowler end umpire. if his her colleague at the striker end has signalled no ball the bowler end umpire is responsible for repeating that signal to the scorers when the ball is dead and may have to add signals to indicate whether the runs are to be scored as byes or leg byes or to award penalties and so on. even if the bowler end umpire has no signals of his her own he she is still required to make the final communication to the scorers when the ball is dead even for short run at the other end. there the first signal is not made until the ball is dead and may be by the striker end umpire if that is the end where the short running occurred. the bowler end umpire is still responsible for informing the scorers as to the number of runs to be recorded if more than one and should repeat the signal. law 22 wide ball 22.1 judging wide 22.1.1 if the bowler bowls ball not being no ball the umpire shall adjudge it wide if according to the definition in 22.1.2 the ball passes wide of where the striker is standing and which also would have passed wide of the striker standing in normal guard position. 22.1.2 the ball will be considered as passing wide of the striker unless it is sufficiently within reach for him her to be able to hit it with the bat by means of normal cricket stroke. 22.2 call and signal of wide ball if the umpire adjudges delivery to be wide he she shall call and signal wide ball as soon as the ball passes the striker wicket. it shall however be considered to have been wide from the instant that the bowler entered his her delivery stride even though it cannot be called wide until it passes the striker wicket. 22.3 revoking call of wide ball 22.3.1 the umpire shall revoke the call of wide ball if there is then any contact between the ball and the striker bat or person before the ball comes into contact with any fielder. 22.3.2 the umpire shall revoke the call of wide ball if delivery is called no ball. see law 21.13 no ball to over ride wide 22.4 delivery not wide 22.4.1 the umpire shall not adjudge delivery as being wide if the striker by moving. either causes the ball to pass wide of him her as defined in 22.1.2 or brings the ball sufficiently within reach to be able to hit it by means of normal cricket stroke. 22.4.2 the umpire shall not adjudge delivery as being wide if the ball touches the striker bat or person but only as the ball passes the striker. 22.5 ball not dead the ball does not become dead on the call of wide ball. 22.6 penalty for wide penalty of one run shall be awarded instantly on the call of wide ball unless the call is revoked see 223 this penalty shall stand even if batsman is dismissed and shall be in addition to any other runs scored any boundary allowance and any other runs awarded for penalties. 22.7 runs resulting from wide how scored all runs completed by the batsmen or boundary allowance together with the penalty for the wide shall be scored as wide balls. apart from any award ofpenalty runs all runs resulting from wide shall be debited against the bowler. 22.8 wide not to count wide shall not count as one of the over. see law 17.3 validity of balls . 22.9 out from wide when wide ball has been called neither batsman shall be out under any of the laws 35 hit wicket 37 obstructing the field 38 run out or 39 stumped in order to be fair to the striker the bowler has to deliver the ball so that the striker can reach it comfortably enough to hit it with normal cricket stroke it must be emphasised that this is all that the wide ball law demands. in limited overs matches of very many competitions there are other considerations of negative bowling and increasingly the addition of marks on the bowling crease at particular distance from the stumps. these do not apply in law but understanding of the wide ball law has been clouded because players having seen or played in so many limited overs matches have had their view of wide influenced by those particular playing conditions. what is important is consistency. early in an innings batsman may be cautious about trying to reach ball. towards the end when the side wants to score more quickly the same batsman may be bolder and try to hit it. the umpires must maintain the same judgment of what is wide in all situations. they must therefore be conscious of what has been considered to be within reach in the early stages so as to make the same assessment in the later stages of the match. the height and reach of the striker will change the umpire assessment but the stage of the game should not. judging wide the test is is it near enough to the striker for him her to hit it merely being within reach is not sufficient. ball which the striker could get the toe of the bat to with arms outstretched at full length is within reach but he she could not hit it in any reasonable sort of way. ball has to be nearer than that to escape being wide. the phrase in the law normal cricket stroke does not mean recognised te book stroke. it simply requires that the striker could comfortably get the bat to it and hit it in reasonable sort of way although the batsman could have reached the ball it would only have been with the toe off the bat. this is wide ball. as an ball over head height could well be within comfortable reach but hitting it would require shot more suited to tennis than cricket. this would therefore qualify as wide and would be one were it not for the fact that any ball over head height is also no ball which over rides wide. this is to protect the batsman from being out if he she mishits the ball or knocks the stumps in the attempt. it must be remembered that if the striker makes no move towards the ball he she will not be able to reach nearly as far on the leg side as on the off side. if however he she opens up the shoulders by moving his her front foot even modest way towards the leg side the batsman will have very much increased reach on that side. low ball must be nearer to be hittable. the batsman reach is much less for low ball. this is therefore wide ball. it should be obvious that tall batsman will be within hittable distance of many more deliveries than shorter one. since by definition the batsman is not actually going to hit wide the umpire must form judgment about what he she could reach comfortably even though he she does not put the bat in the right place. the batsman has only failed to hit the ball because his bat was at the wrong height. he could have hit it properly. therefore this is not wide ball. striker position where the striker is as the ball passes by is crucial in determining wide. the umpire must answer two questions first was the ball comfortably within reach when it passed the striker where he she actually was the striker may have moved well across to the off or to the leg side. they may have advanced some way down the pitch. did the delivery pass the batsman in that position sufficiently near to hit in reasonable sort of way the striker may have changed his her position completely from left handed to right handed or vice versa . this would mean that for the purpose of this law the striker now has two off sides with greater theoretical reach. the second question is would the ball have been comfortably within reach if the striker had been in normal guard position if the answer to either of these questions is yes then the delivery is not wide. the description where he she actually was includes not only the piece of ground the batsman was on at that moment but the whole of the striker body alignment. it must be emphasised that normal guard position is not necessarily this batsman guard position. that may be unusual. some batsmen take guard standing almost entirely outside the stumps on the leg side. it is not unusual for batsman to take guard some way down the pitch although if this is within or would mean likely incursion into the protected area the striker may be warned or penalised under law 41.15 . the umpire has to judge the ball in relation to an average conventional guard position round about the popping crease and standing so that the bat and pads together largely cover the stumps. it should also be noted that ball which passes very wide of the stumps is not necessarily wide. it may have passed the striker within comfortable reach and moved away sharply afterwards. delivery not to be wide three situations are specified in which delivery is not to be wide. the first two relate to movement by the striker. if ball was within comfortable reach and so not wide the striker cannot make that delivery wide by moving away from it to put it out of reach. the ball is out of the batsman reach only because he has moved back from it. this is not wide. the striker can prevent ball from being wide by moving sufficiently close to it. it will then be comfortably within his her reach whether or not it would have been if he she had been in normal guard position. in addition any contact between ball and striker at any time before the ball comes into contact with fielder will mean that delivery is not wide whether it would otherwise have qualified or not. any ball which the striker actually hits is not wide. the striker may reach out towards ball but find it is still not near enough to hit in reasonable sort of way. however he she may just touch it with the toe of the bat. this will mean it is not wide after all and if the umpire has already called it as one he she must revoke that call. calling and signalling wide ball although the umpire will be aware during the ball flight that it is likely to go wide of the striker they must not call it wide until it passes the striker wicket otherwise the striker may touch it may move towards it and bring it within reach or the ball may deviate on pitching and come in close to the striker. if the ball survives all these hazards and is indeed wide the instruction that it is to be considered to have been wide since the bowler entered his her delivery stride is therefore logical and will also remove any doubt as to whether it happened before or after any subsequent events. this instruction is not to be taken as invalidating the statement that no ball is to over ride wide. it is worth re stating this point. ball that is wide is deemed always to have been wide from the moment the bowler entered the delivery stride that means if for team need one run to win and lose wicket from that wide ball the one run penalty has happened before any other action and the game would be over before that wicket had fallen. it is of course possible that striker may hit the ball after it has passed the wicket after it has been called wide. in this case as described above the umpire must revoke the call. it should also be revoked if the other umpire calls and signals no ball. if the call is for encroachment by the wicket keeper only just before the ball reaches the striker the striker end umpire may well not articulate it until after the call of wide ball. nevertheless the no ball is to take precedence. this fact is stated in both laws. just as with no ball the ball does not become dead on the call of wide. the call and signal as the ball passes the wicket are purely to inform the players and the other umpire the umpire is to repeat the signal to the scorers when the ball is dead. recompense for wide by definition wide is not within comfortable hitting distance of the striker this does not prevent him her from hitting it thereby annulling 10 but means choice between moving some way from guard position to hit it and not attempting to score off it. the batsman is therefore given recompense similar to that for no ball. it is however less generous. penalty of one run is awarded to the batting side in addition to any runs accruing in any other way from that delivery. all these runs will be recorded as since the striker will not have hit the ball. they will however with the of anyrun penalty be debited against the bowler the striker is given some immunity from dismissal but it is less immunity than for no ball. in particular the striker can be out stumped or hit wicket and the bowler will be given credit. in addition either batsman can be out obstructing the field or run out. these ways in which batsman can be out from wide are set out in law 22.9. umpires and scorers must be familiar with these. the ball does not count in the over so unless the umpire has mistakenly already allowed the over to continue aftervalid balls have been bowled another delivery must be made. both umpires should adjust their counters to take account of this. law 23 bye and leg bye 23.1 byes if the ball delivered by the bowler not being wide passes the striker without touching his her bat or person any runs completed by the batsmen from that delivery or boundary allowance shall be credited as byes to the batting side. additionally if the delivery is no ball the one run penalty for such delivery shall be incurred. 23.2 leg byes 23.2.1 if ball delivered by the bowler first strikes the person of the striker runs shall be scored only if the umpire is satisfied that the striker has either attempted to play the ball with the bat or tried to avoid being hit by the ball. 23.2.2 if the umpire is satisfied that either of these conditions has been met runs shall be scored as follows. 22.2.2.1 if there is either no subsequent contact with the striker bat or person or only inadvertent contact with the striker bat or person. any runs completed by the batsmen or boundary allowance shall be credited to the striker in the case of subsequent contact with his her bat but otherwise to the batting side as in 23.2.3. 22.2.2.2 if the striker wilfully makes lawful second strike laws 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once and 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once shall apply. 23.2.3 the runs in 23.2.2.1 unless credited to the striker shall be scored as leg byes. additionally if the delivery is no ball the one run penalty for the no ball shall be incurred. 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded if in the circumstance of 23.2.1 the umpire considers that neither of the conditions therein has been met then leg byes shall not be awarded. if the ball does not become dead for any other reason the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. the umpire shall then disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball to the scorers if applicable award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . as in law 18 there are ways batsman can score runs without the striker having hit the ball in the first place namely byes and leg byes. these runs are scored as and are added to the total score but neither credited to the batsman nor debited against the bowler. the only to this is when further runs are accrued from wide these runs are debited as wides against the bowler. byes bye is simple and straightforward. if there is no contact at all between the ball and the striker bat or person the batsmen are entitled to run without restriction of course for the run out law. unless the runs are to be disallowed for other reasons any runs completed are byes. no signal is to be made until the ball is dead although it can be helpful to give an unobtrusive pre arranged indication pre signal to the scorers that signal will be made when the ball is dead. the umpire then confirms this by giving the signal for byes after the ball has become dead to make sure the scorers know that the runs are to be scored as byes. leg byes runs can be scored as leg byes by the batsmen running after the ball has made contact with the striker person but not the bat. here however there are important restrictions. no runs penalty runs are allowed to be scored unless the striker has either attempted to play the ball with the bat or tried to avoid being hit by the ball. if the ball first hits the striker bat whether intentionally or not then no question of leg byes arises and play will proceed normally. if the ball first hits the striker person then ignoring the chance that the striker may be out lbw the umpire must consider whether within these restrictions leg byes could be allowed or not. note that later contact with the bat cannot alter decision that runs are not to be allowed if no attempt to play or avoid the ball has been made. striker attempting to play the ball there are two phrases which have arisen from earlier versions of the law and which now represent an entirely mistaken view of it. they are illegal deflection and deliberately padding the ball away there is nothing illegal about the ball being deflected off the striker person. it is running after such deflection which may be illegal. whilst an unwise batsman may deliberately push the ball away with his her pad he she is equally subject to the prohibition on scoring if he she merely lets it hit his her body even if he she did not intend that to happen. the striker may consider that the ball would pass off stump and lift the bat high to avoid it touching the ball. then the ball turns sharply and une hits the pad. there was nothing deliberate about the ball pad contact but he she is still not allowed to score runs. clearly the batsman has not tried to hit the ball with the bat. the batsman cannot therefore score leg byes. an attempt by the striker to avoid being hit by the ball is usually obvious. whether or not the striker has attempted to hit the ball with the bat may be more difficult to decide. third long outdated incorrect description to add to the two above is playing genuine shot. playing shot is not an adequate description of trying to play the ball with the bat. batsman could sweep the bat through the air in what looks like say an off drive but with every intention of missing the ball. in general the greater the skill of the batsman the more he she will be able to pretend that they are trying to hit the ball while having no intention of doing so. whilst not being an list the following pointers may be helpful. if the striker plays forward defensively with the bat clearly behind the pad makes flourish of the bat well outside the line of the ball puts his her leg forward into the line of the ball and then deliberately brings the bat through outside his her pad then he she is playing shot but not attempting to hit the ball with the bat. it must not be supposed however that all batsmen are trying to deceive. the umpire must use best judgment in every case the batsman cannot be genuinely trying to hit the ball. it has hit the pad with the bat tucked behind it. leg byes cannot be scored was the batsman trying to hit the ball with the bat unless the ball had turned sharply no. leg byes cannot be scored. action for the umpire if the umpire is satisfied that the sticker was genuinely attempted to hit the ball with the bat on alternatively has tried to avoid being hit by the ball then the batsmen are entitled to run or benefit if the ball travels to the boundary and no action is required other than signalling leg byes and boundaryif appropriate to the scorers when the ball is dead and receiving acknowledgement. if however the umpire decides otherwise and leg byes are not to be allowed and the batsmen run then the umpire must follow the procedure set out in law 233. dead ball is not called until either one run has been completed both batsmen making good their ground or the ball goes to the boundary. this delay is in order not to deny the fielding side the opportunity of dismissing one of the batsman if they are running the calling of dead ball and returning the batsmen to their original ends will inform the scorers that any completed runs are not to be allowed. the one run penalty for no ball which will have happened before the ball struck the batsman is still awarded and if either team commits an offence which leads to the awarding ofpenalty runs these will also be applied however there cannot bepenalty runs for the ball striking protective helmet placed on the ground behind the wicket keeper this is not fielding offence and thus they are not punished if leg byes are disallowed. batsman dismissed if the ball first contact with the striker is on his her person and the umpire is not satisfied that there has been either an attempt to hit the ball with the bat or an attempt to avoid being hit by the ball the prohibition on running is quite independent of any dismissal. an appeal for lbw may be valid. if the ball is deflected off the striker person on to the stumps the striker will bowled. there is in fact no method other than timed out by which the striker cannot be out. it is key to remember that if the ball strikes the bat after the person although the batsman can be out caught that doesn mean he she can then score runs the embargo on scoring runs remains if no attempt to hit or avoid being hit by the ball was made. whatever is appropriate in law if batsman is dismissed about returning to original ends or staying at the end they have run to will apply laws 18.11 and 18.12 but the embargo on scoring any runs remains. how runs are to be recorded there can be runs after the ball has struck the batsman person first only if the umpire is satisfied that the striker either tried to hit the ball with his her bat or tried to avoid being hit by the ball. if runs are allowed they will not be byes since the ball has struck the person. they will be leg byes in the one case of inadvertent contact with the striker bat after hitting his her person. then the law permits them to be credited to the striker. if however there is later contact with the bat but it is deliberate but legal second stroke then still no runs will be allowed and the procedure above applies. this is set out more fully under law 34. runs off no ball if no ball is called it will make no difference to the decision as to whether leg byes are to be allowed or not. as already noted the one run penalty will still be awarded even if runs are not allowed. they will be scored as one no ball and then leg byes if allowed. if no ball is bowled and byes are scored there is no question of disallowing the runs under this law though there may be under other laws. the umpire must signal appropriately no ball alone no ball and byes or no ball and leg byes to make the scorers aware what the ball has or has not hit. law 24 fielder absence substitutes 24.1 substitute fielders 24.1.1 the umpires shall allow substitute fielder 24.1.1.1 if they are satisfied that fielder has been injured or become ill and that this occurred during the match or 24.1.1.2 for any other wholly acceptable reason. in all other circumstances substitute is not allowed. 24.1.2 substitute shall not bowl or act as captain but may act as wicket keeper only with the consent of the umpires. note however law 42.7.1 additional points relating to leveland leveloffences . 24.1.3 nominated player may bowl or field even though substitute has previously acted for him her subject to 24.2 24.3 and law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires . 24.2 fielder absent or leaving the field of play 24.2.1 player going briefly outside the boundary while carrying out any duties as fielder is not absent from the field of play nor for the purposes of this law is he she to be regarded as having left the field of play. 24.2.2 if fielder fails to take the field at the start of play or at any later time or leaves the field during play. 24.2.2.1 an umpire shall be informed of the reason for this absence. 24.2.2.2 he she shall not thereafter come on to the field of play during session of play without the consent of the umpire. see 24.4. the umpire shall give such consent as soon as it is practicable. 24.2.2.3 he she shall not be permitted to bowl until having been back on the field of play for period of time known as penalty time as described in 24.2.3 to 24.2.7 and 24.3. 24.2.3 . 24.2.3 player unserved penalty time shall be limited to ma of 90 minutes. 24.2.4 if the player leaves the field before having served all of his her penalty time the balance is carried forward as unserved penalty time. 24.2.5 the player shall not bowl until all of his her penalty time has been served. on any occasion of absence the amount of playing time for which the player is off the field shall be added to any penalty time that remains unserved subject to 24.2.3. 24.2.6 if there is an unscheduled break in play the stoppage time shall count as penalty time served provided that 22.2.6.1 the fielder who was on the field of play at the start of the break either takes the field on the resumption of play. or his her side is now batting. 22.2.6.2 the fielder who was already off the field at the start of the break notifies an umpire in person as soon as he she is able to participate and either takes the field on the resumption of play or his her side is now batting stoppage time before an umpire has been so notified shall not count towards unserved penalty time. 24.2.7 any unserved penalty time shall be carried forward into the ne and subsequent days and innings of the match as applicable. 24.2.8 if leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires is committed by fielder the period of time spent off the field of play as result of the suspension shall not be added to any unserved penalty time if he she takes the field at the end of the period of suspension. 24.2.9 if leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires is committed by substitute the following shall apply. 24.2.9.1 the period of time spent off the field as result of the suspension shall not be added to any penalty time that remains unserved if the nominated player takes the field at the end of the period of suspension however any time spent off the field prior to the offence causing the suspension will remain as unserved penalty time subject to 24.2.3. 24.2.9.2 if the nominated player does not take the field at the end of the period of suspension then the entire period of his her absence will be treated as penalty time up to ma of 90 minutes. 24.3 penalty time not incurred nominated player absence will not incur penalty time if 24.3.1 he she has suffered an blow during the match and as result has justifiably left the field or is unable to take the field. 24.3.2 in the opinion of the umpires the player has been absent or has left the field for other wholly acceptable reasons which shall not include illness or internal injury. 24.4 player returning without permission if player comes on to the field of play in contravention of 24.2.2 and comes into contact with the ball while it is in play the ball shall immediately become dead. the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. runs completed by the batsmen shall be scored together with the run in progress if they had already crossed at the instant of the offence. the ball shall not count as one of the over. the umpire shall inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side the batsmen and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. this law along with law 25 what happens if player has to leave the field or the game for any period of time. the two used to be bound up together in one law but have now been separated. law 24 deals with absences affecting the fielding side while law 25 is focussed on the side batting. during the match substitute by right an injury or illness that occurs during the match means at any time after the toss until the match is ended. this includes the times between those moments when there is no play in progress. player who falls down the pavilion steps during the lunch interval injuring his her ankle is allowed substitute with the consent of the umpires just the same as one who has been injured while fielding. the umpires must be satisfied that an injury has occurred to player or that he she has become ill during that period. of course it must be remembered that the umpires are not medically qualified. they must judge as well as they can. an injury does not have to be completely new to qualify player for substitute. if player comes into match with an injury but is fit enough to take part and it gets worse during the match the umpires might consider that they are entitled to substitute. however this only applies if something during the match causes it to get worse player who comes into the match injured should not be allowed substitute or under law 25 runner if nothing during the match has made their injury worse. umpires are not medically trained and should therefore usually assume that player who is nominated is fit to play full part. however player who has had fitness test before the game and failed it should not substitute fielder or runner if they are only fit enough to bat. other wholly acceptable reasons the umpires should act together in deciding whether player who is not ill or injured has good reason to have substitute fielder. doctor called away to case would be one acceptable reason. if player is injured and another player has to drive them to hospital both players would be eligible for substitute even though only one is actually injured. player arriving late because of heavy traffic is unlikely to be deemed as wholly acceptable reason. no player who is suspended from the game under law 42 is allowed substitute for the time they are off the field. substitutes it is important to understand the difference between substitute fielder and replacement for nominated player. after the teams have been nominated the opposing captain may as described in lawallow nominated player to be replaced by another person. though they may have to remind the captains of the terms of the law the umpires have no say in this. they should change their lists of nominated players to include the new player instead of the replaced one. they will allow any player now on the list and no others to take full part in the game. any player not on the current list is not allowed to take any part in the game other than simply fielding and in some circumstances keeping wicket and then only as permitted substitute for another player. in contrast it is the umpires alone who decide whether player can have substitute or runner for whatever reason. the captains have no say. once substitute fielder is allowed there can be no objection as to who it is or where he she can field. if wicket keeper is injured captain may ask for the umpire consent for substitute to keep wicket this will be decision for the umpires and the umpires alone to make. there is nothing to stop them saying yes but they should not be swayed by the pleas or complaints of either captain. there is however provision for the umpires to refuse consent. if for fielder not the wicket keeper picks up an injury and is replaced by substitute but that substitute is more competent wicket keeper than the original wicket keeper the umpires should not give consent for the substitute to keep wicket. the wicket keeper himself herself is not injured and substitute fielder is not tactical tool. if on the other hand the wicket keeper picks up an injury that is enough to prevent him her from keeping but does not necessarily force him her off the field substitute who had already come on for different fielder should be allowed to take over the gloves. once again this is decision for the umpires to make based on the facts and is not always black and white but in general the principle should be that consent must only be given if the original wicket keeper has genuine injury. it should be noted however that if the wicket keeper has been suspended under law 42 then only nominated player can act as wicket keeper even if there is another substitute on the field already. the umpires have to make sure substitutes play within the laws. if for captain calls on substitute to bowl the umpires will remind him her that this is not allowed. the substitute can do no more than field and cannot captain the side. if nominated player has had substitute he she can still act as full player after returning to the field. for if fielder has badly cut finger substitute may act for him her while it is treated and bandaged. he she is allowed to return and resume as fielder without restriction that the umpire must give permission for the actual moment of his her return. restrictions on when returning player may bowl or bat are covered below and in law 25. in light of the new law 42 which can see players temporarily or permanently removed from the field for poor conduct it is important that the umpires know which substitute is fielding for which nominated player. breach of law 42 by substitute will see the nominated player for whom they are acting punished and so particularly when multiple substitutes are on the field it is vital that the umpires are aware of which substitute is representing which nominated player. fielder absent from field of play player is counted as absent if when his her side comes on the field he she is not among the players. this must not be taken too literally. if fielder is simply moment or two later than the rest of the team that doesn matter provided he she arrives before play is called. fielder will also be absent if he she leaves the field during session of play law 24.2.1 states that going to retrieve the ball from beyond the boundary is not the field . ideally all the fielders should be within the boundary when the ball comes into play. however it would be unreasonable to prevent fielder from starting one or two paces outside the boundary to give himself herself room to walk in towards the wicket. on the other hand the batsmen have right to know where the fielders are when the ball comes into play so that the striker can judge where to play his her shots and both of them can assess whether to attempt run or not. the umpire should not allow fielder to start outside the boundary if it might deceive the batsmen but as long as it is obvious that he she is there and is taking part in the game walking in from outside the boundary can be allowed without penalty. of course actually fielding the ball outside the boundary will result in boundary being scored. to be leaving the field the player must be completely taking themselves out of the game. the umpire has to be told not necessarily by the player himself herself the reason for this absence but does not have to give permission for the absence. the umpire will immediately tell his her colleague and both will note the time so that if the fielder returns they will know how long he she has been absent. they will together decide whether substitute can be allowed or not as outlined above. if fielder does not inform the umpires or the umpires do not accept the reason given as valid reason for substitute . . injury illness or any other wholly acceptable reason no substitute is to be allowed. umpires should take strong approach to such requests and must ensure that they are given valid and genuine reason before giving permission for substitute. after fielder leaves the field the umpires should regularly check on an absent player conditions at appropriate times drinks other intervals or the end of day play. when the fielder wishes to return the bowler end umpire has to give permission before that fielder can come on to the field again. both will check the time that this happens. if substitute has been fielding while the player was absent he she must go off when the original player returns. the umpire should not allow player to return unless the ball is dead and this should be timed so that this fielding change over does not delay play significantly. on the other hand umpires should not make the fielder wait unnecessarily to return. perhaps the end of an over might be best but if the substitute is fielding near the boundary and can swap over with the returning fielder quickly there is no reason why permission shouldn be given for the change mid over between deliveries. the batsmen need to be made aware of the change in the fielding side. the penalty if player returns without permission and makes contact with the ball is laid down in law 24.4. it is quite severe but it must be applied if the situation arises. once the procedure has been implemented apart from the reporting to be made after the match the umpire should then give permission for the fielder to return if that is appropriate. penalty time if player is absent while his her team is fielding he she will in most cases suffer penalty. on returning he she is not permitted to bowl for the same length of time as he she was absent from the field. this time is known as penalty time. umpires must be clear about the time that fielder is to be counted as absent. only that part of the fielder absence which was playing time is significant. the umpires will have noted the time of his her departure or the start of the innings if he she does not come on with the rest of the team. they will also have noted the time of his her return. from the difference between these two they must subtract the time for any intervals not forgetting drinks intervals or interruptions in play since neither of these is playing time. fielders used to be given 15 minute grace period during which their absence was not penalised. this is no longer the case. the moment fielder leaves the field during play note the discussed below their penalty time begins and having returned they may not bowl or bat see law 25 until they have served the equivalent time. non playing time cannot be used to offset any penalty time for unscheduled breaks as outlined in 24.2.6 however this is far from straightforward and umpires will do well to study that section alongside the that follow on page 226. in principle two situations can ariseif fielder with penalty time to serve is on the field immediately before and after the unscheduled break the whole of the time of that break counts as penalty time served 2. if fielder with penalty time to serve is off the field at the start of the break he she must tell the umpires as soon as they are fit to return. providing the player then does return to the field with the rest of the team at the end of the break the time from notifying the umpires will count towards penalty time served. in both cases if the innings has ended during the unscheduled break and the player team are now batting then penalty time would be offset by all of the break in the first case or part in the second case and continue to be served during the batting innings. note that suspensions under law 42 do not count as penalty time served that is to say that if player who is serving penalty time is suspended their penalty time will be the same length when they return from their suspension as when they left. however time off the field due to suspension does not count as an absence for the sake of penalty time once player who was not serving penalty time returns from their suspension they may bat and bowl immediately. if substitute is on the field then there will be nominated player off the field accruing penalty time. if that substitute is then suspended for leveloffence under law 42.4 the time he she spends off the field will not be added to the nominated player penalty time if and only if the nominated player is ready to return to the field immediately at the end of the suspension. if the nominated player remains off the field that is to say the substitute returns after his her suspension then the entire period will be treated as penalty time. it is important to note that however long player has been absent the ma penalty time they will have to serve is 90 minutes. if they return that time will begin to be reduced immediately from 90 until they are once again able to take full part in the game. however if they leave the field again then the penalty time will increase back to the ma of 90 minutes. to penalty time there are when penalty time does not need to be served. if the injury is because of an blow and suffered during the match penalty time is not incurred. the same is true if the absence is due to other wholly acceptable reasons discussed above . in these cases no penalty time is served and as soon as the player is ready to return he she may bat and bowl as full member of the team as if they had never left the game. what counts as an blow should be fairly obvious it means an injury caused by impact whether with the ball another person or even the ground. it does not cover muscular injuries or illness. it must be remembered that the umpires are not usually medical professionals and they must make decision about what injuries are justifiable based on the best of their knowledge. limits to penalty time penalty time was previously limited within the fielding innings of an absence. this is no longer the case. player who goes off the field when his her side is fielding will serve penalty time during the rest of that innings and if there is still penalty time remaining at the end of the innings will not be permitted to bat until that penalty time is over or until five wickets have fallen for more details see law 25 . in the same way penalty time used to be wiped clear at the end of the day. this is no longer the case. player who is serving penalty time at the end of day play keeps that penalty time at the start of the ne day until he she has served all of the required time up to ma of 90 minutes. penalty time calculations in dealing with calculations for time absent and delay on return the points to note are time spent off the field from the start of the first session is not to be treated any differently from any other time. if player is absent on more than one occasion the penalty time for any subsequent absence is added to the remaining penalty time from previous absences up to rolling ma of 90 minutes. only actual playing time counts in any part of the calculation in the special case of law 24.2.6 already mentioned. the following demonstrates these points. it is slightly artificial scenario designed to show what might happen rather than what is likely to happen in single game to single player. time event current penalty time comments 1100 the match startsmins 1145 fielder bradman test the umpires he has pulled muscle in his leg and leaves the fieldmins this is an internal injury meaning bradman is unable to bowl or bat until he has been on the held for the same length of time the penalty time he is off it. 1300 scheduled time for lunch interval 75 mins 1340 the ne session of play commences 75 mins lunch is scheduled interval no additional penalty time is added. 1355 bradman remains off the field 90 mins this is the ma penalty time no further time will be added at this stage. 1415 play is suspended due to rain 90 mins as bradman has not told the umpire he is ready to resume the time of the unscheduled interruption is not taken off the penalty time. 1445 play recommences but bradman remains off the field 90 mins 1500 play is suspended due to rain 90 mins 1510 bradman advised the umpires he is ready to resume play 90 mins 1520 play recommences with bradman on the field of play 80 mins any remaining time in an unscheduled interruption after bradman advises the umpires he she is ready to play games taken off the remaining penalty time. 1540 scheduled time for tea 60 mins bradman has been on the field for 20 minutes which reduces the penalty time. 1600 play recommences 60 mins tea is scheduled interval meaning penalty time is not reduced. 1620 play is suspended due to rain 40 mins bradman was on the field from tea aunty ne start of interruption so the time reduces penalty time to be served. 1640 play recommences with bradman on the field 20 mins because bradman was on the field when the unscheduled interruption began and rata when play recommence the full period of the interruption is taken off the penalty time. 1640 bradman advises the umpire his injury has worsened and leaves the field of play 10 mins penalty time has reduced to 10 minutes but now time off the field will be added to the outstanding penalty time up to ma of 90 minutes. 1800 play ends for the day 80 mins time event current penalty time comments 1100 play commences on daywith bradman on the field 80 mins outstanding penalty time is carried over to daybut will now start to reduce. 1130 the first innings ends 50 mins the following part of the refers to application of law 25 but is included for completeness. 1140 the second innings commences bradman was due to open but is not permitted as he still has penalty time to serve 50 mins the 10 minutes between innings is scheduled interval meaning penalty time is not reduced. 1220 the 5th wicket tales and bradman comes into bat 10 mins although there is still 10 minutes of penalty time to serve becausewickets have fallen bradman is entitled to bat immediately. 1225 bradman is dismissed and the captain declaresmins penalty time is reduced while bradman is batting. 1235 2nd innings commences. bradman takes the field but is not allowed to bowlmins the 10 minutes between innings is scheduled interval meaning penalty time is not reduced. 1240 bradman is allowed to bowlmins all of his penalty time has now been served. further points to note only playing time absent as fielder counts. if player is injured when batting and is absent for an hour before resuming his her innings this will have no effect on his her entitlement to bowl if fit when his her side fields provided he she takes the field at the start of the innings. it is the umpires responsibility to see that the restrictions on bowling or batting after absence are observed. they must be meticulous in noting the times involved and should not rely on others even if the scorers do make note of the timings the umpires should have their own independent record. law 25 batman innings runners 25.1 eligibility to act as batsman or runner only nominated player may bat or act as runner and subject to 25.3 and 25.5.2 may do so even though substitute fielder has previously acted for him her 25.2 commencement of batsman innings the innings of the first two batsmen and that of any new batsman on the resumption of play after call of time shall commence at the call of play. at any other time batsman innings shall be considered to have commenced when that batsman first steps onto the field of play. 25.3 restriction on batsman commencing an innings 25.3.1 if member of the batting side has unserved penalty time see law 24.2.7 fielder absent or leaving the field of play that player shall not be permitted to bat or act as runner until that penalty time has been served however even if the unserved penalty time has not that player may bat after his her side has lostwickets. 25.3.2 member of the batting side penalty time is served during playing time subject to the conditions in 25.3.2.1 and 25.3.2.2. 25.3.2.1 the period of time while serving suspension for leveloffence under law 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires does not count as penalty time served 25.3.2.2 in the event of an unscheduled stoppage the stoppage time after the batsman notifies an umpire in person that he she is able to participate shall count as penalty time served. 25.3.3 if any unserved penalty time remains at the end of team innings it shall be carried forward to the ne and subsequent innings of the match if appropriate. 25.4 batsman retiring 25.4.1 batsman may retire at any time during his her innings when the ball is dead. the umpires before allowing play to proceed shall be informed of the reason for batsman retiring. 25.4.2 if batsman retires because of illness injury or any other unavoidable cause that batsman is entitled to resume his her innings. if for any reason this does not happen that batsman is to be recorded as retired not out . 25.4.3 if batsman retires for any reason other than as in 25.4.2 the innings of that batsman may be resumed only with the consent of the opposing captain. if for any reason his her innings is not resumed that batsman is to be recorded as retired out . 25.4.4 if after retiring batsman resumes his her innings subject to the requirements of 25.4.2 and 25.4.3 it shall be only at the fall of wicket or the retirement of another batsman. 25.5 runners 25.5.1 the umpires shall allow runner for batsman if they are satisfied 25.5.1.1 that the batsman has sustained an injury that affects his her ability to run and 25.5.1.2 that this occurred during the match in all other circumstances runner is not allowed. 25.5.2 runner shall 25.5.2.1 be member of the batting side. 25.5.2.2 if possible have already batted in that innings when this is not possible if circumstances change such that dismissed batsman can act as runner then the runner must be changed immediately. 25.5.2.3 be changed only with the consent of the umpires. 25.5.2.4 wear protective equipment equivalent to that worn by the batsman for whom he she runs and shall carry bat. 25.5.2.5 not have any unserved penalty time as described in law 24.2.7 fielder absent or leaving the field of play . 25.5.3 batsman runner is subject to the laws and will be regarded as batsman where there are special provisions for his her role as runner see law 302 which is batsman ground . 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner 25.6.1.1 batsman who has runner will suffer the penalty for any infringement of the laws by the runner as it he she the batsman had been responsible for the infringement. in particular he she will be out if the runner is out under either of laws 37 obstructing the field or 38 run out . 25.6.1.2 when batsman who has runner is the striker he she remains subject to the laws and will be liable to the penalties that any infringement of them demands. in the case of run out and stumped however special provisions set out in 25.6.3 25.6.4 and 25.6.5 apply to him her as striker who has runner. 25.6.1.3 when batsman who has runner is the striker his her ground is always at the wicket keeper end. 25.6.1.4 if the striker who has runner is in his her ground and the runner is out of his her ground at the wicket keeper end when the wicket is fairly put down at that end the conditions of law 38 run out shall apply. 25.6.1.5 if the striker who has runner is out of his her ground and the wicket at the wicket keeper end is fairly put down the striker is liable to be out under laws 38 run out or 39 stumped . if the runner is also out of his her ground at the wicket keeper end then only law 38 run out can apply. 25.6.1.6 if striker who has runner is dismissed as in 25.6.5 the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end award anyrun penalty that is applicable 25.6.1.7 when batsman who has runner is not the striker he she 25.6.7.1 remains subject to law 37 obstructing the field but is otherwise out of the match. 25.6.7.2 shall stand where directed by the striker end umpire so as not to interfere with play. 25.6.7.3 will be liable even though out of the match as in 25.6.7.1. to any penalty demanded by the laws should he she commit any act of unfair play. 25.7 restriction on the striker runner once the ball comes into play the runner for an injured batsman who is the striker shall have part of his her person or bat grounded behind the popping crease until the ball reaches the striker or passes the popping crease whichever is the sooner. if the striker end umpire considers the runner for an injured striker to be in breach of this restriction then if the ball does not become dead for any other reason he she shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. however he she shall delay the call of dead ball to allow the opportunity for catch to be completed. the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . runners batsman is allowed runner only if the umpires are satisfied that an injury has been sustained during the match which affects that batsman ability to run. note that unlike the case for allowance of fielding substitute no other reasons are allowed. however having previously had substitute acting for player does not prevent them having runner when batting. the umpires must make sure that any player acting as runner is nominated player of the batting side and that his her dress and equipment comply with law 25.5. it is specified in law 25.5.2.4 that the runner must carry bat and wear protective equipment equivalent to the batsman for whom he she runs. as defined in appendix .2.2 this means for batsman items permitted are protective helmet leg guards batting pads batting gloves and if visible forearm guards. this it should be remembered does not apply to internal protective equipment such as thigh pad or box which is classified as clothing under appendix .12.2. clearly the requirement that he she should have already batted cannot be met if one of the opening pair is injured. in that case another batsman is allowed to act as runner. then if the other opener who is not batting with runner is out that opener should take over as the runner and the original runner should leave the field. if there is no batsman who has already batted able to act as runner the runner should not be the ne batsman to come in so that he she is not given an unfair advantage of seeing the bowling and getting used to the light. to prevent an advantage to the batting side of having tired runner replaced by fresh one he she should not be changed for another one without the consent of the umpires and only if there is no alternative or as above if there is batsman dismissed who can now do the job . this means that the runner should be from low in the order until batsman is dismissed and then that dismissed batsman will become the runner. umpires may have to these conditions to the captain of the batting side particularly if he she believes that the runner can become the ne batsman when wicket falls. it is also important to note that no player should act as runner if they are serving penalty time or while they are suspended under law 42. innings commencing at the start of each innings it is not until play is called that the innings of the opening batsmen start. the instant of stepping on to the field of play applies only to new batsmen coming in during session of play. when time is called in any session the innings of those batsmen already at the wicket will continue in the ne session if their side is still batting. if however new batsman comes in as play resumes his her innings will not start until play is called to restart after the break whatever the nature of the break. if batsman steps onto the field of play but then does not begin his her innings because the previous batsman had left the field under misapprehension or the fielding captain withdraws an appeal and the decision is reversed laws 31.7 and 31.8 then the innings of that new batsman will be deemed not to have started and is just removed from the record at that time. penalty time penalty time is only built up while team is fielding. however it is served if necessary when team is batting as well. umpires will need to keep note of any outstanding penalty time from previous innings at the start of new innings and it is for them to prevent batsman who is serving penalty time from batting until he she has either served that time or the batting side have lost their fifth wicket. any unserved penalty time from the fielding innings must therefore be clearly outlined to the captain of the batting side at the start of new innings to ensure the player does not come out to bat too early and create any unnecessary delays. this law prevents an opening batsman leaving the field towards the end of the innings when their side is fielding so they are rested when they come out to bat. such batsman would not be allowed to open the batting and could not come in to bat until after the ne wicket or batsman retires following their penalty time having been served or the fall of the 5th wicket whichever is sooner. as discussed under law 24 if there is an unscheduled break during the batting innings the batsman with unserved penalty time will benefit from all of this break providing he she has notified the umpires that he she is available to bat at the start of the break. if the batsman is not available to bat at the start of the interruption but is available at some point during the break the time after he she notifies the umpires of his her availability will count as penalty time served. in two innings match it might be that the batting innings ends during an unscheduled break and the second innings starts. provided the player with unserved time is available to retake the field then he she will benefit from that time. as in law 24 suspension of batsman under levelof law 42 will not count as penalty time served. there is complete of penalty when batting or fielding on pages 226 7. batsman retiring law 25.4 that batsman may retire for any reason during his her innings when the ball is dead but the umpires must be told the reason for retirement. this reason will determine first whether he she may resume his her innings by right or only with the consent of the opposing captain. secondly where he she fails to resume that innings how this is recorded by the scorers. if batsman retires due to illness injury or any other reasonable cause he she may resume his her innings by right. if he she does not do so this is recorded as retired not out. if the batsman retires for any other reason he she may only resume his her innings with the consent of the opposition captain. if he she does not do so this is recorded as retired out batsman who has runner for the most part an injured batsman and his her runner are regarded as two parts of the same person. the batsman can be out or penalties can be awarded against the batting side whether the batsman or the runner is responsible there are times when this does not apply however. for if the injured batsman is out of his her ground and not attempting run he she can be stumped. however if the runner is also out of his her ground he she is always considered to be attempting run thus only run out is possible and not stumped for more on this see law 39. if the runner is out of his her ground before the ball reaches the injured striker or passes the popping crease whether or not he she is attempting run this is deemed unfair and the batting team are punished under law 25.7.2. rather like non striker leaving his her ground early law 41.16 runner leaving his her ground early when the injured batsman is on strike is putting himself herself at risk and has only himself herself to blame if the misdemeanour is spotted. however in this case the punishment is not only that the runner and thus the batsman for whom he she is running may be run out but also that the batsmen are denied the chance to score any runs from that delivery. in this scenario the striker end umpire should call dead ball as soon as the batsmen have completed one run or the ball reaches the boundary unless there is the opportunity for catch to be taken in which case they must delay the call until the catch is either taken or dropped. in any case the runs will be disallowed the batsmen returned to their original ends and any penalty runs under law 28.3 awarded. when batting with runner the injured striker can never have the ground at the bowler end as his her ground if the batsman with runner attempts to run despite the apparent injury and reaches the bowler end he she can still be run out if the wicket is put down at the wicket keeper end. when not on strike the injured batsman has no ground and can only be out himself herself obstructing the field. if the injured striker him herself is run out no runs other than penalties will be scored whereas normal scoring of runs applies if the runner is run out. there is more detailed discussion of this under law 38 run out and 39 stumped . there may be situation where the striker has runner and the striker runs and the runner leaves his her ground early. in that situation the striker running is to be ignored. if the runner and the non striker complete run or the ball reaches the boundary the ball is to be called dead the runs disallowed and any penalty runs due under law 28.3 awarded. if either batsman is run out before the call of dead ball then they will be out. however if the fielding side attempts to run out the striker who may be out of his her ground after the call of dead ball this will not be out the ball is already dead. field technique when the injured striker has runner the umpire will have to judge whether or not the runner is within his her ground both during the delivery and for checking on short runs and for possible run out. he she must therefore position the runner so that the umpire can see the creases and the wicket as well as the runner. additionally the runner must not get in the way of the fielding side. the most suitable position is usually with the runner at square leg and the umpire on the off side. if however there is good reason such as low sun or clearer markings on the ground to help judge the position of the runner for the umpire to be on the leg side then the positions can be reversed. the diagram below shows positioning for right handed batsman. it demonstrates that regardless of which side the ball has gone the bowler end umpire must always go to the side that his her colleague is on to avoid the embarrassment of having the runner running behind the umpire and therefore not visible. when the injured batsman is not on strike then he she should stand as directed by the striker end umpire so as not to interfere with play usually near the umpire at the striker end. at this moment the injured striker is not involved in the game in any way this is both the best position to avoid interference in play and makes it clear to the umpires of the injured striker were to bring him herself into play deliberately. however the injured striker should neither be in front of the umpire thus obscuring his her view nor behind thus unable to see the ball and potentially in dangerous position . the problems associated with appeals for run out which there is runner or even two runners on the field are discussed in more detail in law 38. umpire wk wicket keeper runner is injured striker for whom he she runs ns non striker law 26 practice on the field 26.1 practice on the pitch or the rest of the square 26.1.1 there shall not be any practice on the pitch at any time on any day of the match. 26.1.2 there shall not be any practice on the rest of the square at any time on any day of the match with the approval of the umpires. 26.2 practice on the outfield 26.2.1 on any day of the match all forms of practice are permitted on the outfield before the start of play. after the close of play and during the lunch and tea intervals or between innings providing the umpires are satisfied that such practice will not cause significant deterioration in the condition of the outfield. 26.2.2 between the call of play and the call of time practice shall be permitted on the outfield providing that all of the following conditions are met. only the fielders as defined in appendix .7 participate in such practice. no ball other than the match ball is used for this practice no bowling practice takes place in the area between the square and the boundary in direction parallel to the match pitch. the umpires are satisfied that it will not contravene either of laws 41.3 the match ball changing its condition or 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side . 26.3 trial run up bowler is permitted to have trial run up provided the umpire is satisfied that it will not contravene either of laws 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side or 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch . 26.4 penalties for contravention all forms of practice are subject to the provisions of laws 41.3 the match ball changing its condition 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side and 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch . 26.4.1 if there is contravention of any of the prisoner 26.1 or 26.2 the umpire shall warn the player that the practice is not permitted. inform the other umpire and as soon as practicable both captains of the reason for this action. 26.4.1.1 if the contravention is by batsman at the wicket the umpire shall inform the other batsman and each incoming batsman that the warning has been issued. the warning shall apply to the team of that player throughout the match. 26.4.2 if during the match there is any further contravention by any player of that team the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing side inform the other umpire the scorers and as soon as practicable both captains and if the contravention is during play the batsmen at the wicket. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. practice on the field this law differentiates between the three areas the pitch the rest of the square and the outfield namely the rest of the field of play. it sets out clearly when and where batting practice or bowling practice or other forms of practice are or are not allowed in each area. however it is also less prescriptive than in previous codes giving the umpires little more fle umpires should therefore be vigilant but need not be too pedantic when enforcing this law. players will often practise throwing and catching the ball during lull in play. at times this can lead to waste of playing time. however as long as they do this practice only with the match ball and in way that does not waste time or damage the ball this is legitimate. this means such practice will almost always be when there is some other necessary activity taking place such as the captain re setting the field for new bowler or the sight screen being moved. it is common for bowler to bowl the ball to fellow fielder at the beginning of new spell. if this is done while the striker is taking new guard or the sight screen is being moved no time is being wasted. however the umpire should watch for signs of potential damage to the ball especially if bowled hard into the ground even though the intention was to loosen the bowler shoulder and intervene if necessary. the umpires must be ready to require the bowler to start the over as soon as such other legitimate activities are completed. short comment to the bowler in good time will probably prevent the more severe action in law 41.9 becoming necessary. if however fielders damage the ball or waste time the umpire should implement the procedure set out in law 41.3 or 41.9 initially giving first and final warning to the captain of the fielding side. practice on the square practice on the pitch is never allowed under any circumstances at any time on the day of the match. practice on the square the pitch at any time on any day of the match is only allowed with the permission of the umpires. any running or even walking on the square will cause some damage to the surface but in good conditions this will not be significant. umpires must not allow practice on the square if they consider that the damage will be significant. this may be because the surface is damp and soft. it may be because the surface is very dry and easily scuffed up. practice on the outfield much pre match practice takes place on the outfield. players will also often practise before play starts during the lunch and tea intervals between innings and between the close of play on one day and the start on the ne in multi day game. this is permitted provided the umpires believe it will not cause significant deterioration. the outfield usually has more robust surface than the square. nevertheless in very damp conditions significant damage could be caused. the umpires must not allow this. between the call of play and the call of time that is while session of play is in progress certain practice is allowed as long as it does not contravene laws 41.3 or 41.9. it is also important to note that only players already on the field of play may take part in this coach or substitute fielder not on the field at that time may not practise or help fielder practise from off the field for by throwing ball for them to catch or having them bowl ball to them. however as only the match ball can be used it should be easier for the umpires to control such practice particularly at the fall of wicket when the umpires will have the ball. the law now specifically bans bowling practice in the area between the square and the boundary in direction parallel to the pitch. this might arise if the ne bowler is fielding in the slips or gully and when the ball is passed back from the wicket keeper instead of throwing it to say mid off in order to get some practice he she bowls the ball. the umpire must intervene and stop this applying the sanctions if necessary. it should be remembered that batting practice although unlikely is also forbidden between the calls of play and time. penalties for contravention all forms of practice including trial run up are subject to laws 41.3 41.9 and 41.12. if players contravene laws 26.1 or 26.2 by practising on the square or outfield when it is not permitted or by practising on the pitch at any time the umpire will give first and final warning to the players involved advise his her colleague and as soon as practical inform both captains. if the contravention is by batsman at the wicket the umpire informs the other batsman and any incoming batsmen of the warning. if any member of the offending side contravenes the law during the rest of the match not just the innings the umpire will awardpenalty runs inform his her colleague the scorers and both captains and if during play the batsmen at the wicket. the umpires will report the captain and any other individuals involved and it might be coach or player not in the nominated team as set out in law 26.4. trial run up it is inevitable that play will be held up if there is change of bowler. the captain of the fielding side is entitled to reasonable time for re arranging the field though the umpire should intervene if he she considers the captain is taking overlong to do this. the striker is entitled to ask for the sight screen to be moved particularly if the new bowler action is to be from the other side of the wicket while such temporary hold up is occurring the bowler is allowed to have trial run up if he she wishes. however the bowler is not allowed trial run up if there is no convenient and legitimate gap in play. again law 41.9 is to be implemented if the umpire feels this is time wasting. if the bowler continues his her trial run up and follows through onto the pitch they may be damaging the pitch and should be sanctioned under law 41.12. damaging the ball often as well as trial run up bowler may at the beginning of his her spell want to bowl loosener to team mate. this as with the trial run up is fair so long as there is an appropriate time to do so and also if the bowler does not damage the ball see law 41.3 . the bowler may therefore bowl the ball to team mate at mid off. however practice that used to be common of slamming the ball into the ground to loosen the shoulder is obviously more likely to damage the ball and this should not be allowed. umpires should employ reasonable judgment over whether the practice is likely to cause damage to the ball. law 27 the wicket keeper 27.1 protective equipment the wicket keeper is the only fielder permitted to wear gloves and leg guards. if these are worn. they are to be regarded as part of his her person for the purposes of law 28.2 fielding the ball . if by the wicket keeper actions and positioning when the ball comes into play it is apparent to the empire that he she will not be able to carry out the normal duties of wicket keeper he she shall forfeit this right and also the right to be recognised as wicket keeper for the purposes of laws 33.2 fair catch . 39 stumped . 28.1 protective equipment 28.4 limitation of on side fielders and 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch . 27.2 gloves 27.2.1 if as permitted under 271 the wicket keeper wears gloves they shall have no webbing between the fingers. joining index finger and thumb where webbing may be inserted as means of support. 27.2.2 if used the webbing shall be single piece of non stretch material which although it may have facing material attached shall have no reinforcements or tucks. 27.2.3 the top edge of the webbing shall not protrude beyond the straight line joining the top of the index finger to the top of the thumb and shall be taut when hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully . see appendix . 27.3 position of wicket keeper 27.3.1 the wicket keeper shall remain wholly behind the wicket at the striker end from the moment the ball comes into play until ball delivered by the bowler touches the bat or person of the striker or passes the wicket at the striker end or the striker attempts run. 27.3.2 in the event of the wicket keeper contravening this law the striker end umpire shall call and signal no ball as soon as applicable after the delivery of the ball. 27.4 movement by wicket keeper 27.4.1 after the ball comes into play and before it reaches the striker it is unfair if the wicket keeper significantly alters his her position in relation to the striker wicket. for the following 27.4.1.1 movement of few paces forward for slower delivery unless in so doing it brings him her within reach of the wicket. 27.4.1.2 lateral movement in response to the direction in which the ball has been delivered. 27.4.1.3 movement in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his her actions suggest he she intends to play. however the provisions of law 27.3 shall apply. 27.4.2 in the event of unfair movement by the wicket keeper either umpire shall call and signal dead ball. 27.5 restriction on actions of wicket keeper it in the opinion of either umpire the wicket keeper interferes with the striker right to play the ball and to guard his her wicket. law 2026 umpire calling and signalling dead ball shall apply. it however either umpire considers that the interference by the wicket keeper was wilful then law 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker shall also apply. 27.6 interference with wicket keeper by striker if in playing at the ball or in the legitimate defence of his her wicket the striker interferes with the wicket keeper he she shall not be out as provided for in law 37obstructing ball from being caught . protective equipment the wicket keeper is fielder. any reference to fielders in the laws will include the wicket keeper unless specifically stated otherwise. the wicket keeper is however special fielder. he she alone is allowed to wear pads and gloves. these count as part of his her person where relevant. although not defined the normal duties of the wicket keeper are well understood. he she is to stand behind the wicket in line along which the ball is likely to travel if the striker misses it or delete it only slightly the wicket keeper must be far enough back to have time to see the ball but not so far as to miss the chance of catch or possible stumping in the umpires consider the wicket keeper is not in such position perhaps behind the stumps but virtually on the boundary perhaps in slip or fine leg position then that player is not wicketkeeper and loses the privilege of wearing protective equipment tr that fielder is not in valid wicket keeping position but continues to wear pads and gloves then contact between the ball and any such item is illegal fielding to be dealt with as in law 28.2. where such fielder is not in valid wicket keeping position then regardless of whether the ball touches his her gloves or pads he she forfeits the right to be regarded as wicket keeper and stumping is impossible though run out would still be possible . he she becomes subject to laws 28.4 limitation of on side fielders and 28.5 fielders not to encroach on the pitch . this does not mean that the wicket keeper cannot leave the keeper position to field the ball. provided on every delivery he she stands in suitable keeper position while the ball is being delivered and the striker is receiving it he she can thereafter move away freely to field the ball without forfeiting the right to pads and gloves. it is also worth stating as strongly implied by the above that this means team is not required to have wicket keeper. it is rare but not unheard of in modern cricket to position player on the boundary behind the wicket so as to prevent the batsman scooping the ball for four over where the wicket keeper would be standing. that is entirely permitted so long as that fielder is not wearing any protective equipment that comes into contact with the ball. umpires must use their judgment to decide what is too far back to be considered as the wicket keeper. the speed of the bowler will be relevant and rule of thumb is that the wicket keeper will normally stand in position where the ball will carry to him her before bouncing . . in position to take catch. gloves note that very particular requirements are laid down about the wicket keeper gloves stated in law 27.2 and illustrated in appendix . although these restrictions caused some problems when first introduced in 2000 they are now generally accepted by manufacturers and players are not likely to transgress. however there may be occasions when gloves do not meet the requirements. in those cases wicket keeper wearing illegal gloves must be made to change them. if for some reason no other gloves are available the umpires must use their judgment. the matter must be reported and every measure possible taken to make sure the wicket keeper is not permitted to use the illegal equipment. however it could be unsafe for wicket keeper not to wear gloves at all. umpires must be careful not to encourage law breaking while ensuring player safety and should work with both captains to come to solution. if wicket keeper does end up using illegal gloves it is imperative that the matter is reported to ensure he she cannot do so again. position of wicket keeper apart from where the wicket keeper must be in general terms to have the right to wear equipment law 27.3 adds specific restriction on his her position. behind the wicket is defined in appendix .4. it is clear that the wicket keeper must not have any part of his her person or equipment from the tip of finger to the peak of cap etc. further forward than the back of the stumps. that means and it is worth repeating that if any part of the wicket keeper person or equipment is in line with the stumps it is not behind and is thus not permitted. the wicket keeper is not wholly behind the stumps while the ball is being delivered this is no ball. the wicket keeper is confined from the moment the ball comes into play that is the moment the bowler starts his her run up. the three events any one of which will release the wicket keeper from this prison are set out in this section of law they are that the ball touches the striker bat or person the ball passes the wicket or the striker sets off for run. wicket keeper seeing chance of stumping will often push his her hands too far forward at the last minute in the an to take the ball. the striker end umpire must be watching for this. the wicket keeper is allowed to come in front for catch since the ball will have touched the striker bat. again the striker end umpire must watch that the wicket keeper does not anticipate the catch and come in front before the ball has touched the bat. no ball is to be called and signalled by the striker end umpire after delivery of the ball if the wicket keeper moves too soon. the wicket keeper is taking the ball in front of the stumps. this is permitted only if the ball has hit the striker the striker bat or run has been attempted before the keeper moved from behind the stumps. other wise it is no ball. movement by wicket keeper as well as confining the wicket keeper behind the stumps during the specified period the law prevents him her from making any significant movement between the ball coming into play and the ball reaching the striker if the wicket keeper realises that the delivery is slower one he she can move forward few paces. it on the other hand the wicket keeper is standing back and creeps up close to stumping position during the bowler run up this is not allowed and dead ball should be called. either umpire may see this movement. whichever one does must make the call and signal. there is no harm done if both umpires do while the wicket keeper is not permitted to move from standing back to standing up after the ball comes into play neither is he she required to notify either the batsmen or the umpires if he she is changing from one to the other between balls. so long as there is no attempt to trick batsman whilst the ball is live wicket keeper may go from one to the other as often as they please. umpires should be aware of the wicket keeper position immediately before the bowler begins running in. the wicket keeper will be generally behind as described above but may be slightly to the off or leg side. this is not problem and he she does not have to adopt the same position every ball. however the wicket keeper may only move from one side to the other after ball has come into play in response to the delivery or shot that the batsman shapes to play. for the striker may change his her position in an attempt to hit the ball by means of fine sweep or even changing from right to left handed stance. if the striker does this and the wicket keeper moves in response and by doing so is on the other side of the wicket then this is allowed and does not count as significant movement by the wicket keeper . the provisions of law 27.3 still apply. striker right to play the ball the striker is entitled to play the ball and guard his her wicket without interference from the fielding side. this enables the batsman to make late cut or to follow the ball round on the leg side and hit it after it has passed the line of the wicket. if the wicket keeper interferes with this it is likely to be accidental and the call of dead ball and the ball not counting in the over is the only action required. the umpires must however judge whether the action was deliberate. if either umpire so decides then this is case of obstruction or distraction of the striker. action will be as set out in law 41.4. striker interfering with wicket keeper the striker has an absolute right to play the ball and to defend the wicket even with second stroke subject to the two provisos the batsman must be either genuinely trying to play the ball or solely defending his her wicket and he she must not obstruct catch by any fielder not only one by the wicket keeper. as long as these two requirements are met no action is to be taken if the striker interferes with the wicket keeper attempt to gather the ball. he she may play very late cut when the wicket keeper is already in the process of taking the ball. provided the batsman is genuinely playing the ball he she is allowed to do so without penalty although he she will be out obstructing the field if the interference is deliberate and prevents catch. the same is true of second strike provided it is genuinely and solely in defence of the stumps. in the case of second strike however should either umpire form the opinion that defending the wicket was not the striker sole motive if the action interferes with the wicket keeper then rather than being out hit the ball twice the batsman will be out obstructing the field. law 28 the fielder 28.1 protective equipment no fielder other than the wicket keeper shall be permitted to wear gloves or leg guards. in action protection for the hand or fingers may be women only with the consent of the umpires. 28.2 fielding the ball 28.2.1 fielder may field the ball with any part of his her person see appendix a12 as in 28.2.1.2. however he she will be deemed to have fielded the ball illegally it while the ball is in play he she wilfully uses anything other than part of his her person to field the ball. his her clothing with his her hands and uses this to field the ball. discards piece of clothing equipment or any other object which subsequently makes contact with the ball. 28.2.2 it is not illegal fielding if the ball in play makes contact with piece of clothing equipment or any other object which has accidentally fallen from the fielder person. 28.2.3 if fielder illegally fields the ball the ball shall immediately become dead and the penalty for no ball or wide shall stand. any runs completed by the batsmen shall be credited to the batting side together with the run in progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the offence. the ball shall not count as one of the over. in addition the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. inform the other umpire and the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action. inform the batsmen and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side 28.3.1 protective helmets when not in use by fielders may not be placed on the ground above the surface behind the wicket keeper and in line with both sets of stumps. 28.3.2 if the ball while in play strikes helmet placed as described in 28.3.1 28.3.2.1 the ball shall become dead and subject to 28.3.3. 28.3.2.2 an award ofpenalty runs shall be made to the batting side 28.3.2.3 any runs completed by the batsmen before the ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored together with the run in progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the protective helmet. 28.3.3 if the ball while in play strikes helmet placed as described in 28.3.1 unless the circumstances of law 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded or law 34 hit the ball twice apply the umpire shall permit the batsmen runs as in 28.3.2.3 to be scored signal no ball or wide ball to the scorers if applicable awardpenalty runs as in 28.3.2.2 award any other penalty runs applicable. 28.3.4 if the ball while in play strikes helmet placed as described in 28 31 and the circumstances of law 23.3 leg byes not to be awarded or law 34 hit the ball twice apply the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball or wide ball to the scorers if applicable award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under 28.3.2. 28.4 limitation of on side fielders at the instant of the bowler delivery there shall not be more than two fielders other than the wicket keeper behind the popping crease on the on side. fielder will be considered to be behind the popping crease unless the whole of his her person whether grounded or in the air is in front of this line. in the event of infringement of this law by any fielder the striker end umpire shall call and signal no ball. 28.5 fielders not to encroach on pitch while the ball is in play and until the ball has made contact with the striker bat or person or has passed the striker bat no fielder other than the bowler may have any part of his her person grounded on or over the pitch. in the event of infringement of this law by any fielder other than the wicket keeper. the bowler end umpire shall call and signal no ball as soon as possible after delivery of the ball. note however law 27.3 position of wicket keeper . 28.6 movement by any fielder other than the wicket keeper 28.6.1 any movement by any fielder the wicket keeper after the ball comes into play and before the ball reaches the striker is unfair for the following 28.6.1.1 minor adjustments to stance or position in relation to the striker wicket. 28.6.1.2 movement by any fielder other than close fielder towards the striker or the striker wicket that does not significantly alter the position of the fielder. 28.6.1.3 movement by any fielder in response to the stroke that the striker is playing or that his her actions suggest he she intends to play. 28.6.2 in all circumstances law 28.4 limitation of on side fielders shall apply. 28.6.3 in the event of such unfair movement either umpire shall call and signal dead ball. 28.6.4 note also the provisions of law 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker . see also law 27.4 movement by wicket keeper . protective equipment the only visible protective equipment that fielder other than the wicket keeper is allowed to wear is protective helmet. appendix a2 spells out that this term includes face guards if fielder genuinely needs protection for damaged hand or fingers permission to wear it must be obtained from the umpires who will ensure that it is neither nor unreasonable. no protection that may give any advantage to bowler should be permitted while he she is bowling and umpires must be vigilant to ensure that any other protective measures are genuinely needed and not in order to gain an unfair advantage. while player safety is paramount umpires and players should ensure the wearing or of protective equipment does not unduly delay play. fielding the ball fielding the ball is not necessarily stopping it and grasping it. it is contact with the ball in deliberate attempt to stop it. fielder is allowed to do this with any part of his her person as defined in appendix .12. wilfully fielding it otherwise is deliberately using something that is not part of his her person to field it. the classic but rare is fielder using cap he she has taken off to field the ball. it could be contact with an illegal item of visible protective equipment or clothing though the umpires should ensure such items are promptly removed. an might be shin guard often worn by close fielder being quickly put on during the innings over the trouser leg and hence visible. the umpire should ensure this is not visible before the ball comes into play but if it is and the ball makes contact with it that is illegal fielding if the fielder uses some form of equipment deliberately to field the ball that is wilful and there have been cases of fielder fielding the ball while holding glove discarded by the keeper. if the ball makes contact with clothing equipment or other object deliberately discarded by fielder this constitutes illegal fielding. fielder wilfully discarding an item of clothing or equipment . . his her cap or helmet. whilst running to field ball which is then hit by the ball. is an of illegal fielding. the same applies to the wicket keeper tossing glove aside and thrown ball hitting that discarded glove. while the act of the ball hitting the glove may not be deliberate the ball comes into contact with the item of equipment because of deliberate act the removal . it is thus deemed to be wilful act. it is not illegal fielding however if the item be it cap helmet glove or any other piece of equipment or clothing has fallen off accidentally and is then hit by the ball. cases have been known of the ball accidentally falling into fielder open necked shirt and even into one of his her pockets. such incidents are not unlawful because they are not wilful acts. it is however illegal to deliberately field the ball using worn clothing such as sweater or loose shirt to catch the ball. there is difference between illegal fielding defined in this law and the transgression in law 24.4 of fielder coming onto the field without permission. there the contact with the ball does not have to be deliberate though it almost always is. the offence is merely coming on to the field without permission and touching the ball even accidentally. the penalty is nevertheless the same in both laws the ball immediately becomes dead and does not count in the over. five penalty runs are awarded to the batting side together with runs completed or crossed on at the instant of the illegal contact and any penalty for no ball or wide. the umpire informs his her colleague the fielding captain and the batsmen and as soon as practical the batting captain. illegal fielding should always be reported in both cases. helmets on the ground it has long been accepted that whilst umpires will hold bowler cap or sweater during the over at their end umpires do not carry helmets. batsman unwanted helmet needs to be removed from the field of play. fielders are allowed to put them on the ground behind the wicket keeper to save the time to take them off the field. umpires should check that they are in line with the stumps and far enough back. the ball becomes dead and the penalties set out in law 28.3 apply only when the ball touches helmet in this position not if it falls off accidentally. helmets not being worn by the fielding side should be placed as shown directly in line with the stumps and behind the wicket keeper under law 28.3 as indicated below where runs are disallowed runs completed and crossed before the ball touches the unworn helmet are scored andpenalty runs are awarded to the batting side. it should be noted that there is no report to be made under law 28.3 the only instance in the laws where the award ofpenalty runs is not followed by report after the match. this is because putting the helmet on the ground is not in itself an unfair act whereas trying to field the ball by manoeuvring it or for by pulling out sweater to form pouch is deliberately unfair. if fielder helmet is discarded deliberately it is treated like any other item in line with law 28.2 and carries the additional sanction of being reported if the ball touches it. the penalty for no ball or wide will always stand and any other penalty runs can be awarded if necessary. however as discussed in law 23 the particular penalty for the ball hitting the unworn fielder helmet on the ground behind the wicket keeper is not awarded in those situations where runs are disallowed. limitation on the position of fielders 1.behind the popping crease the restriction in law 28.4 to have no more than two fielders behind the popping crease on the on side is absolute. third fielder with as little as hand overhanging the back edge of the popping crease marking contravenes the law. sometimes however the wicket keeper will stand on the leg side to get better view of the flight of the ball. if so this does not count as one of the two. the time when the embargo is in force is at the instant of delivery. apart from having number of other things to watch the main difficulty for the striker end umpire is the fielder walking in towards the wicket who may start in legitimate position before the ball is delivered but as he she walks in crosses the popping crease which of course to the boundary. situation in which this could happen is when there are already two fielders behind the popping crease as the bowler runs up and fielder at square leg in front of it but close to it. it is essential that the umpire can observe that square leg fielder which is not possible if the fielder is positioned behind the umpire. the striker end umpire must therefore cross to the off side so that he she can see this fielder. for any contravention the striker end umpire must call and signal no ball. 2. encroaching on the pitch the other restriction on fielders positions is in law 28.5. here the embargo is in force not just at an instant in time but over longer period set out in detail in the law. the bowler may run on the pitch within strict limits in the follow through. no other fielder is allowed on the pitch throughout the stated period. it should be noted that often the pitch will not be the same width as the cut strip which is often slightly narrower. again just as for fielders behind the popping crease on the pitch includes not only feet grounded on the pitch but any part of fielder person overhanging it. even though the fielder hand is in the air the fielder is encroaching on the pitch while the ball is being delivered this is no ball. the fielder may be encroaching on the pitch even if not on the cut strip and umpires must be aware of the difference and be prepared to make fielders aware of that difference to avoid them infringing. the penalty for contravention is again call and signal of no ball but in this case by the bowler end umpire. although it may appear that the wicket keeper is from the embargo this is only because if he she offends as will be the case if for . he she has any part of the wicket keeping glove level with or in front of the stumps too soon then action is to be taken as laid down in law 27 the wicket keeper rather than under this law. movement by fielders the striker is entitled to know where the fielders are. therefore once the bowler starts running up when the striker will be concentrating on that it is unfair if fielder moves to significantly different position. movement that fielder is allowed to make is defined in law 28.6. close fielders are allowed to make minor adjustments to their stance but should not move as the ball is bowled as this may distract the striker. for other fielders walking in few paces towards the striker wicket is permitted and but that is usually the limit. boundary fielders are permitted to walk few more paces than those fielding in the infield which is acceptable so long as their position is not materially changed. the is when the movement is as reaction to shot the batsman is playing or looks to be about to play. the classic of this is the fine or paddle sweep. as the striker makes clear his her intention to play the shot slip might run towards leg slip this is allowed as long as it is reaction to the batsman movement subject to law 28.4 discussed above . when the movement is unfair call and signal of dead ball must be made immediately by whichever umpire sees it. field technique all the things that have been said previously about where umpires must focus their attention while the ball is being delivered by the bowler and received by the striker will apply. an additional point for this law is that it is quite possible that the players will continue play not realising that the ball has become dead automatically in case of illegal fielding or even of the ball hitting helmet on the ground. in such situation the bowler end umpire may need to take up the option offered in law 20.4.1 of nevertheless calling and signalling dead ball. it will not be necessary to repeat this to the scorers as it is an signal to inform the players. it may well be helpful however to tell the scorers the number of runs to be recorded. it is possible that they will not be able to tell whether the batsmen had crossed or not before the instant of the offence. law 29 the wicket is down 29.1 wicket put down 29.1.1 the wicket is put down if bail is completely removed from the top of the stumps or stump is struck out of the ground 29.1.1.1 by the ball 29.1.1.2 by the striker bat if held or by any part of the bat that he she is holding 29.1.1.3 for the purpose of this law only by the striker bat not in hand or by any part of the bat which has become detached 29.1.1.4 by the striker person or by any part of his her clothing or equipment becoming detached from his her person 29.1.1.5 by fielder with his her hand or arm providing that the ball is held in the hand or hands so used or in the hand of the arm so used. 29.1.1.6 the wicket is also put down if fielder strikes or pulls stump out of the ground as in 29.1.1.5. 29.1.2 the disturbance of bail whether temporary or not shall not constitute its complete removal from the top of the stumps but if bail in falling lodges between two of the stumps this shall be regarded as complete removal. 29.2 one bail off if one bail is off it shall be sufficient for the purpose of putting the wicket down to remove the remaining bail or to strike or pull any of the three stumps out of the ground in any of the ways stated in 29.1. 29.3 remaking wicket if wicket is broken or put down while the ball is in play it shall not be remade by an umpire until the ball is dead. see law 20 dead ball . any fielder may however while the ball is in play replace bail or bail on top of the stumps. put back one or more stumps into the ground where the wicket originally stood. 29.4 dispensing with bails if the umpires have agreed to dispense with bails in accordance with law 8.5 dispensing with bails it is for the umpire concerned to decide whether or not the wicket has been put down. 29.4.1 after decision to play without bails the wicket has been put down if the umpire concerned is satisfied that the wicket has been struck by the ball by the striker bat person or items of his her clothing or equipment as described in 29.11.2 29.11.3 or 29.114. or by fielder in the manner described in 29.1.1.5. 29.4.2 if the wicket has already been broken or put down 29.41 shall apply to any stump or stumps still in the ground. any fielder may replace stump or stumps in accordance with 29.3 in order to have an opportunity of putting the wicket down. there is distinction between wicket being down and being put down. wicket is down if it is not complete wicket as defined in law 8. the wicket is put down by the act of removing one or more of its stumps or bails. how the wicket is put down is crucial in determining whether batsman is out or not for bowled hit wicket run out or stumped. law 29.1 sets out first what is to be achieved for the wicket to be down and then lists the ways which this stage is to be reached in order for the wicket to have been fairly put down. these ways are clearly listed in law 29.1.1. umpires should study the list. the words break and broken are sometimes used in relation to removing bails etc. they do not have the same significance as put down bowler may accidentally break the wicket by running too close to it while running up. he she has not in the strict sense put the wicket down and although this would be no ball the wicket can be rebuilt by member of the fielding side before the ball is dead to allow for later run out attempt. law 29.2 then makes it clear that the starting point for putting the wicket down does not have to be complete wicket. bail may be off already the other one or stump can be removed. both bails may be off stump can be removed. putting the wicket down is reducing whatever state it is in to one with fewer bails and or stumps. only when all three stumps are out of the ground is it impossible to put wicket down. even then or at any earlier stage the wicket can be partly re assembled by fielder replacing stumps or bails to give an opportunity to put the wicket down. it should be noted that an umpire should not try to remake the wicket in any way until the ball is dead if fielders replace stumps as they are permitted to do they must put them where the wicket originally was. in talking of the cases where the striker may be responsible for putting down his her own wicket it should be noted that this is one of only two instances in the laws where items of clothing or equipment no longer attached to player and therefore no longer part of either his her equipment or person are treated as though they were. this is important in considering an appeal for hit wicket. the other occasion is law 21.6 when the bowler breaks the wicket delivering the ball. complete removal 1. bail there are instances where bail has jumped out of its groove and settled back into the groove been jerked out of its groove and settled back on top of one stump fallen between the stumps so that one end is pressed against one stump the other end sticking up above the neighbouring stump. none of these has been completely removed from the top of the stumps. only when the whole bail whether on the ground or jammed between two stumps is below the level of the top of the stumps has it been completely removed for the purposes of dismissal deciding perhaps whether the batsmen had crossed or not bail has been removed at the moment that both ends of it leave their grooves. if however subsequently it is not completely removed as in the above then the temporary removal will be considered never to have happened. the umpire however is unlikely to be able to make such fine judgment with the naked eye both balls are on top of the wicket the wicket is not down. part of the displaced bail is above the top of the stumps the wicket is not down one bail is completely below the top of the stumps the wicket is down 2. stump stump is not knocked out of the ground until it is completely free from the ground being knocked so far as to be nearly horizontal is not enough. ball held in hand although fielder can throw the ball on to the stumps to put the wicket down they can also do it with the ball in hand. he she can then use the ball in hand to put the wicket down or can use his her hand or even that arm right up to the shoulder but it must be the hand which is holding the ball or that same arm the fielder can use no other part of his her body to break the wicket even if the ball is in close pro eg the ball is trapped between the knees or in the top of wicket keeper pad which are then used to break the wicket. pulling stump out of the ground one handed is virtually impossible with the ball held in the same hand unless it is very large hand. usually it will have to be achieved by holding the ball in both hands and pulling up the stump with both hands holding the ball in one hand and pulling up the stump with the other is no use. rather than pulling the law permits fielder to strike stump out. as noted above he she must knock it clear out of the ground difficult to do if the stumps are firmly set. in mad rush for run out fielder may throw their whole body at the stumps demolishing the wicket. so long as the ball is in at least one hand and that hand or arm is what knocks out the stumps this is permissible however it may be difficult to be sure it was not some other body part so fielders are risking the umpire uncertainty and thus not out verdict. the fielder has struck the wicket with his arm holding the ball in that hand. the wicket has been fairly put down artificial pitches if an artificial pitch is being used it is often not possible to have normal stumps fi in the ground. various replacements such as spring back stumps are available. they can involve difficulties in judging the breaking of the wicket. sometimes playing conditions for the match will instruct umpires on the modifications needed. in any case the two umpires must agree any necessary details before the start of play dispensing with bails the decision whether to do so or not has been discussed in law 8. if bails have been dispensed with the judgment of the wicket being fairly put down is considerably modified. the umpire at that end must judge not what might have happened if the bails had been there but what has happened to the stumps. that means judging whether stump or stumps have been touched however slightly by the ball the striker bat or person or items detached from him as set out in law 29.1 fielder with the hand holding the ball or with the arm of the hand holding the ball. the umpire does not have to judge how hard the strike was merely that it has happened. he she does not have to consider that from some earlier incident the balls might already have been off had they been there in the first place. the umpire looks on each occasion at what happens to the stumps even if they are askew as long as they are in the ground or at least the one that is struck is in the ground. it must be emphasised that all the above applies only if the umpires have decided not to have bails. it is not relevant to the situation of the bails coming off accidentally in the course of play or having been removed in an unsuccessful attempt to secure dismissal. when bails have been dispensed with fielders will not need to pull stump fully out of the ground to put the wicket down even if one or more of the stumps have already been removed. field technique it was emphasised in law 18 how important it is for each umpire to have view of the wicket and the creases while the batsmen are running. the need to watch whether the wicket is fairly put down especially for possible run out underlines again the importance of this. the essentials are that the umpire must be able to see with his her head stationary the putting down of the wicket and the position of the batsman in relation to the popping crease at that time. this means he she must move as quickly as possible without waiting to assess the situation. he she must not get in the way of the fielding of the ball particular hazard if this is happening close to the wicket. in that situation however it will be obvious where the umpire must go to avoid the fielders and the ball. if there is runner the umpire must not have the runner behind him her and must go to the same side as the striker end umpire is on. he she must not get in the way of the throw in which would disadvantage the fielding side or get hit him herself. with all these difficulties the traditional advice is still to go to the side to which the ball has been hit avoiding the path of the throw in unless the of runner or of the fielding being close to the wicket demand otherwise. the growing practice particularly at higher levels of the game of the fielder receiving the throw in standing between the wicket and the fielder throwing the ball can make it easier to move to the other side to have better and safer view of the putting down of the wicket. what is important is not so much which side the umpire goes to there are advantages and disadvantages for either side and as discussed elsewhere it may depend on where the ball has been hit but that he she should do it very quickly and therefore as habit without having to think about it. at worst the umpire may have to have diagonal view of events rather than side on one though this should be last resort and should only happen if the ball is hit to close fielder very quickly. the striker end umpire is stuck on one side of the wicket but as he she is already at good distance from the wicket can usually move to one side in sufficient time if his her view becomes blocked by fielder. the wicket keeper takes throw from fielder... ...but drops the ball before breaking the wicket. it is rarely if ever as obvious as this. the two things that an umpire must watch for with the utmost vigilance are that the fielder actually had the ball in his her hand. it is not uncommon for the fielder to take the ball but in the act of moving the hand quickly to put down the wicket to let go of it. he she may be moving his her hands towards the stumps in anticipation of receiving the ball but break the wicket before it is actually in his her hand. this is special risk for the wicket keeper. it is the hand or arm of the hand holding the ball that breaks the wicket. it can happen that fielder concentrating on catching the throw in knocks against the wicket with some other part of his her person. if the umpire is unable to see clearly that the wicket has been put down correctly he she may wish to consult with his her colleague who might have had different view. law 30 batsman out of his her ground 30.1 when out of his her ground 30.1.1 batsman shall be considered to be out of his her ground unless some part of his her person or bat is grounded behind the popping crease at that end. 30.1.2 however batsman shall not be considered to be out of his her ground if in running or diving towards his her ground and beyond and having grounded some part of his her person or bat beyond the popping crease there is subsequent loss of contact between the ground and any part of his her person or bat or between the bat and person. 30.2 which is batsman ground if only one batsman is within ground it is his her ground and will remain so even if he she is later joined there by the other batsman. if both batsmen are in the same ground and one of them subsequently leaves it the ground belongs to the batsman who remains in it. if there is no batsman in either ground then each ground belongs to whichever batsman is nearer to it. or if the batsmen are level to whichever batsman was nearer to it immediately prior to their drawing level. if ground belongs to one batsman then unless there is striker who has runner the other ground belongs to the other batsman irrespective of his her position. when batsman who has runner is striker his her ground is always at the wicket keeper end. however 30.21 30.2.2 30.2.3 and 30.24 will still apply but only to the runner and the non striker so that that ground will also belong to either the non striker or the runner as the case may be. 30.3 position of non striker the non striker when standing at the bowler end should be positioned on the opposite side of the wicket to that from which the ball is being delivered unless request to do otherwise is granted by the umpire. this law defines when batsman is in or out of his her ground for use in conjunction mainly with laws 18 scoring runs 38 run out and 39 stumped . batsman ground batsman ground at each end of the pitch is defined in appendix .6.3 as the whole area of the field of play behind the popping crease which of course all the way to the boundary on either side of the marking. to be in his her ground batsman must have some part of his her person or bat held in his her hand grounded behind the popping crease at that end on the line of the marked crease clearly does not count. the bat is over the popping crease but is not grounded. unless it has previously been grounded over the popping crease and has bounced up while the bats man is running or diving the batsman has not made his her ground. the bat is on the crease marking. this is not behind the popping crease and thus not in his her ground. there is difference between batsman being in his her ground and making good his her ground. to be in their ground batsmen need some of their person or bat in hand grounded behind the popping crease. to have made good their ground having left it is little more complicated when batsman is running to make his her ground to avoid being run out or stumped he she is unlikely to slow down on reaching the popping crease. having successfully grounded one or more feet behind the popping crease the batsman may continue running in the same direction. when running or diving in an attempt to make his her ground it is often the bat which first makes contact with the batsman ground. however if it hits an uneven patch or bowler footmark as the batsman is sliding it in it could bounce up losing contact with the ground. in an case the bat could be forced out of the batsman hand altogether. if the wicket were to be put down at the precise moment when either both of the batsman feet or the bat held in the hand were not in contact with the ground or the bat is not in contact with the batsman hand then technically the batsman would not be in his her ground. however he she might have already made good their ground by placing foot or bat behind the popping crease. the batsman is therefore protected in this situation by law 30.1.2. in order for this protection to apply the batsman must in running or diving already have made good their ground and must not be in the process of turning to start another run. if both of those apply then the batsman is deemed to be in his her ground. the law requires that the batsman is running or diving to ensure that batman who has simply raised his her foot in attempting to play shot is not protected from being stumped. whose ground is it whether one end is particular batsman ground or not is set out in law 30.2. it is simple matter if each batsman is in different ground. each is then in his her ground. it is equally simple if neither is in ground while they are running or even stationary between the wickets and no part of their persons or equipment overlap. each ground then belongs to the batsman who is nearest to it. if one is in ground and the other is not the empty ground belongs to the one who is not in ground. however there are several situations which are not as clear 1. the batsmen are level or in the process of crossing. it is important for assigning runs for deciding who might be dismissed run out or to determine who is on strike for the ne ball especially given the use of technology in the professional game to know whether the batsmen have crossed. in the process of running assuming both batsmen leave their ground there will be period of the run when the bodies and equipment of the batsmen overlap. for batsmen to be deemed to have crossed there must be no part of their persons overlapping. however for deciding ownership of the ground at each end for the purposes of run out it will be whoever is nearest to each ground and if there is doubt then the ground at each end belongs to the batsman who last left it. 2. two batsmen in the same ground the ground belongs to whoever reached the ground first. if one batsman never left his her ground then that ground will always belong to him her. if however batsman leaves his her ground and then attempts to return to it but the other batsman reaches that ground before he she does then it belongs to the one who reached it first not necessarily the one to whom it belonged before the ball was delivered. 3. injured striker with runner here the complication is that there are three people to share two grounds. as far as the non striker and the runner are concerned they are treated as the two batsmen in the previous paragraphs. for them everything is as stated there. as they change ends so that the runner for instance starts off with his her ground at the wicket keeper end but after passing the non striker his her end is at the bowler end and so on. the ground at the wicket keeper end belongs alternately to the runner and to the non striker. all the time that the injured striker with runner is on strike however the ground at the wicket keeper end belongs only to the injured batsman. that striker never has the ground at the bowler end even if in spite of the injury he she actually runs to that end. when batsman who has runner is not the striker he she has no end at all. ownership of the two grounds is decided between the other two in the normal way. position of non striker law 30.3 is quite separate from the rest of the law. it specifies the position of the non striker as the ball comes into play. it should cause no difficulty. it is accepted practice that as the law requires the non striker stands on the opposite side of the wicket to that on which the bowler is going to deliver the ball. it is very rare for player to ask to stand on the other side. if he she did the umpire would have to consider very carefully whether to allow it. to be clear of the bowler action and run off from the pitch the non striker would have to be some way out on that side. this could make it difficult for the umpire to see his her movements particularly as the bowler runs between them. however there might be good reason for the change the fielding positions might mean the non striker would have to stand even further out on the normal side or there could be damp patches on one side making running difficult. the umpire must weigh up the benefits and risks carefully. wherever the non striker stands he she must not obstruct either the bowler delivering the ball or the striker view of that delivery nor impede close fielders. on the other hand he she must not stand so far from the pitch that the bowler end umpire cannot see his her movements. law 31 appeals 31.1 umpire not to give batsman out without an appeal neither umpire shall give batsman out even though he she may be out under the laws unless appealed to by fielder. this shall not debar batsman who is out under any of the laws from leaving the wicket without an appeal having been made. note however the provisions of 31.7. 31.2 batsman dismissed batsman is dismissed if he she is either given out by an umpire on appeal or out under any of the laws and leaves the wicket as in 31.1. 31.3 timing of appeals for an appeal to be valid it must be made before the bowler begins his her run up or if there is no run up. his her bowling action to deliver the ne ball and before time has been called. the call of over does not invalidate an appeal made prior to the start of the following over provided time has not been called. see laws 12.2 call of time and 172 start of an over . 31.4 appeal how that an appeal how that covers all ways of being out. 31.5 answering appeals the striker end umpire shall answer all appeals arising out of any of laws 35 hit wicket 39 stumped or 38 run out when this occurs at the wicket keeper end the bowler end umpire shall answer all other appeals. when an appeal is made each umpire shall answer on any matter that falls within his her jurisdiction. when batsman has been given not out either umpire may answer an appeal made in accordance with 31.3. if it is on further matter and is within his her jurisdiction. 31.6 consultation by umpires each umpire shall answer appeals on matters within his her own jurisdiction. if an umpire is doubtful about any point that the other umpire may have been in better position to see. he she shall consult the latter on this point of fact and shall then give the decision if after consultation there is still doubt remaining the decision shall be not out. 31.7 batsman leaving the wicket under misapprehension an umpire shall intervene if satisfied that batsman not having been given out has left the wicket under misapprehension of being out. the umpire intervening shall call and signal dead ball to prevent any further action by the fielding side and shall recall the batsman batsman may be recalled at any time up to the instant when the ball comes into play for the ne delivery unless it is the final wicket of the innings in which case it should be up to the instant when the umpires leave the field. 31.8 withdrawal of an appeal the captain of the fielding side may withdraw an appeal only after obtaining the consent of the umpire within whose jurisdiction the appeal falls. if such consent is given the umpire concerned shall it applicable revoke the decision and recall the batsman the withdrawal of an appeal must be before the instant when the ball comes into play for the ne delivery or if the innings has been completed the instant when the umpires leave the field. law 31.1 makes it clear that an umpire is not to give batsman out without an appeal from the fielding side. for that matter neither should the umpire announce that batsman is not out without being asked. the batsman however knowing he she is out can in effect dismiss him herself without an appeal by leaving the wicket and going off the field. an appeal how that is recommended it will cover all ways of being out. this does not mean that it is the only way to appeal to the umpire. as long as it is clear beyond all doubt that fielder is asking the umpire opinion as to whether or not batsman is out small variations such as how was that how was he can be considered as appeals. player with hearing or speech impairment may have difficulty appealing vocally but can make it absolutely clear that he she is requesting the umpire judgment on dismissal. when law 31.4 says that how that covers all ways of being out that means that team never need to appeal for certain type of dismissal. for team could appeal thinking the batsman is out lbw. the umpire however has seen the ball brush the inside edge of the bat lbw is thus not possible. if the ball had been caught fairly after hitting the bat and the pad by fielder the umpire would answer the appeal out the batsman is out caught. it does not matter that the fielding side are appealing for lbw an appeal is for any method of dismissal. if there is any confusion the umpire should inform the scorers of the method of dismissal although this is not essential immediately and can usually wait until the ne break in play . batsman out batsman dismissed there is very clear distinction between batsman being out and that batsman being dismissed. being out means that the conditions of the appropriate law apply. being means that an umpire has given the batsman out on appeal or the batsman has walked from the wicket acknowledging that he she is out. batsman who just fails to make good his her ground in running when the wicket is put down will be out. if the umpire with whatever assistance is available is in doubt and so gives that batsman not out then the batsman is not dismissed unless he she chooses to walk unlikely in this situation in which the batsman will not be likely to know for sure if he she had made his her ground. similarly the striker may be hit on the pad in circumstances which mean he she is out lbw. if uncharacteristically no one appeals that batsman is not dismissed. for this reason none of the laws on dismissals mentions an appeal. each law merely states the conditions in which the batsman is out. whether the batsman is dismissed or not depends on an appeal being made and upheld or on the batsman walking. batsmen will often walk for something obvious like clearly taken catch in the outfield. it is virtually certain that they will not do so for an lbw appeal. the laws that follow this 32 40 which outline each method of dismissal do not mention appeals that is because law 31 states that an appeal is always required law 31.1 will always apply even though it is not mentioned in these subsequent laws. timing appeals need not be made at the instant of the incident there are just two restrictions on when an appeal can be made it must be before the ball ne comes into play after the incident when the bowler starts the run up for action to deliver the ne ball. even the call of over does not invalidate this and it must be before time has been called in that session. an appeal for possible run out or any other dismissal on the last ball of an over provided it is not the last over before an interval or interruption can be made at any time up to the start of the ne over. however appealing before the ne over starts after drinks interval would be too late time would have been called at the start of the interval. this is one reason that it is so important for an umpire to call time at the appropriate moment no umpire wants to be answering an appeal potentially giving batsman out halfway off the field before the tea interval fortunately the vast majority of appeals occur instantly and so such are rare. umpire jurisdiction law 31.5 allocates each of the methods of dismissal to particular umpire. the law requires the appropriate umpire to answer an appeal on any matter allocated to him her. every appeal must be answered. pointedly ignoring an appeal by some gesture such as turning his her head away is not acceptable. he she must either raise an index finger to give the batsman out or say not out. some umpires may shake their head and this is by no means bad thing to do as it is clear sign to those who cannot hear the call of not out. however it should be as well as verbal response not instead. an appeal is not made to an umpire even though player may appear to be asking particular umpire. an appeal is to be assumed to be general. an umpire will answer it if the incident involves or could involves dismissal within his her jurisdiction. for the striker is hit on the pad the ball goes through to the keeper who whips off the bails. if there is an appeal the bowler end umpire will consider whether or not the striker was out lbw the striker end umpire will consider whether or not the batsman was out stumped. two answers will be given. the fact that the bowler end umpire says not out for the lbw will not negate any judgment of out stumped by the striker end umpire. if both umpires give the striker out the general rule is that the action that happened first will take precedence. in the above if both umpires signal out then lbw will over ride stumped since the strike on the pad was before the removal of the bails. where there are such multiple possibilities it is helpful for the umpire to indicate to the scorers which one is to be recorded. the laws on bowled and caught modify the general rule by stating specifically which is to take precedence with bowled trumping all forms of dismissal and caught taking precedence over everything bowled. consultation law 31.6 makes it clear that an umpire is permitted to seek information from his her colleague concerning the facts of an incident. for the bowler end umpire may see clearly that batsman has hit the ball but not whether it was cleanly caught by fielder. the umpire at the other end may be in better position to see whether it touched the ground or was caught fairly. consultation may remove any doubt as to whether the striker was out caught or not provided the other umpire is in better position to see the relevant incident. although both umpires are involved in making the decision it is the bowler end umpire who must give it since caught is one of the laws on which he she is to adjudicate. consultation on dismissals must be on questions of fact. on which the other umpire may have better information as in the . if in question of dismissal the appropriate umpire is unsure of some of the facts and the other umpire cannot help with them he she is required to give the batsman not out. consultation need not require conference. ideally simply an enquiring look would probably be enough particularly where relevant signals have been agreed between the umpires pre match. if it does require person to person conversation then that is not problem. an umpire who leaves his her position for such consultation is to call and signal dead ball. leaving wicket under misapprehension there may be an occasion when batsman mistakenly thinking he she is out walks from the wicket. for instance if in attempting run the batsman knows he she was well short of making his her ground when the wicket was broken the batsman will believe he she is out not aware that the wicket was not fairly put down because the ball slipped out of the wicket keeper hand just before the wicket was broken. similarly batsman may believe he she is out if there appears to have been fair catch but the striker did not hear call of no ball. in each of these situations no appeal has been made and no decision has been given. law 31.7 would therefore apply. it must be emphasised that this will apply only if the batsman has not been given out. it is not way for one umpire to over ride decision by the other one. as soon as either umpire becomes aware that batsman has left their wicket under misapprehension he she should call and signal dead ball to prevent any action especially the inappropriate running out of the further batsman. that umpire should then recall the batsman consulting with his her colleague if necessary and ensure the scorers are aware of any runs that have been scored. the recall of the batsman by the umpires can happen any time up the point of the ball ne coming into play or if this was the last wicket of the innings before the umpires leave the field. this means that should it be the end of session of play but not the end of an innings the batsman who has left thinking he she is out can be brought back after the interval as long as play has not recommenced withdrawal of an appeal sometimes captain may regret an appeal by one of his her side feeling it is not within the spirit of the game. for the bowler and batsman may collide entirely accidentally leaving the batsman out of his her ground. if the wicket is then put down the umpire must give the batsman out on appeal. however captain may feel that this wicket which came about because of an accidental collision is not deserved and ask to withdraw that appeal. whatever the reason the captain is to follow the procedure set out in 31.8. the key points are that the captain must seek the permission of the appropriate umpire. it is quite possible that the captain will ask the wrong umpire. that umpire should simply redirect the question. the captain must do so before the ball comes into play for the ne delivery or if this was the last wicket of the innings before the umpires have left the field of play. in some cases the request will come before any decision on the appeal has been taken anyway. as always the umpire must use judgment over whether to accept this withdrawal but should not refuse without good reason. if permission is granted it is the umpire not the captain who is to call the batsman back. umpire decision is final this familiar phrase is enshrined as principle in law 2.12. however an umpire may realise that mistake has been made in the case of this law specifically in reaction to decision following an appeal and want to reverse that decision. perhaps the umpire gave batsman out caught not aware that the non striker end umpire had called no ball. perhaps the mistake is the umpire own realisation immediately after raising the finger for lbw that there was an inside edge for . there may be embarrassment but there is no disgrace in admitting it and changing the decision so long as it is done promptly and without reacting or being influenced by any pressure from either team. it is much better than allowing miscarriage of justice. an umpire will be the more respected for it than for sticking to decision he she knows to be wrong. the reversal of decision must be made promptly and certainly before any progress at all with the game. once an umpire has made decision and has not altered it that decision will stand in all circumstances. special provisions at the highest levels for requesting reviews of umpires decisions do not apply in law. law 32 bowled 32.1 out bowled 32.2.1 the striker is out bowled if his her wicket is put down by ball delivered by the bowler not being no ball even if it first touches the striker bat or person. 32.2.2 however the striker shall not be out bowled if before striking the wicket the ball has been in contact with any other player or an umpire. the striker will however be subject to laws 37 obstructing the field 38 run out and 39 stumped . 32.2 bowled to take precedence the striker is out bowled if his her wicket is put down as in 32.1 even though decision against him her for any other method of dismissal would be justified. bowled is the first of the nine methods of dismissal listed in alphabetical order. it is in most cases so obvious that the majority of batsmen will walk from the wicket without appeal perfectly understanding that they are out. the crucial points for batsman to be out bowled are the wicket is put down by the ball the delivery is not no ball nobody sometimes the striker is involved between the bowler delivering the ball and the ball breaking the wicket. the phrase clean bowled is not found in the laws but it gives good picture of the ball having left the bowler hand striking the stumps and breaking the wicket without touching anything in between that usually it will have landed on the pitch. the striker can equally be bowled however if he she and the ball make contact before the ball hits the stumps. the ball may touch the bat or be deflected off the striker person. he she may stop it with defensive stroke lose sight of it and accidentally kick it on to the stumps. he she may attempt second stroke to defend the wicket but succeed only in hitting the ball on to the stumps. the question of completing stroke is not relevant. until the ball has been touched by another player or an umpire the striker must suffer the consequences of his her actions voluntary or involuntary. if delivery is not no ball and the ball hits the stumps thereby putting down the wicket the striker is out bowled providing the ball has not touched either another player or an umpire since it left the bowler hand. did the ball break the wicket occasionally there may be doubt about this. the wicket keeper may be standing very close and might dislodge the bails or the ball may rebound from the wicket keeper onto the stumps. perhaps the ball fell off accidentally due to gust of wind. perhaps there is uncertainty as to whether the striker person or the ball itself broke the wicket. in all these cases the striker end umpire should be in position to help his her colleague to determine how the wicket was put down as discussed under law 31 . bowled to take precedence there may be other cause for appeal. the striker having played ball defensively uses the bat to tap the ball to fielder without permission see laws 34.2 and 37.4 and accidentally hits the ball on to the wicket. alternatively before going on to the wicket the ball may hit the pad in such way that the striker is out lbw. or the ball might touch the edge of the striker bat before hitting the wicket and then go on to be caught by the wicket keeper. none of these other modes of dismissal are relevant if the batsman is bowled. law 32.2 establishes firmly that providing it is not no ball if the ball breaks the wicket when no fielder has been involved then the striker is out bowled whatever other possibilities there are. law 33 caught 33.1 out caught the striker is out caught if ball delivered by the bowler not being no ball touches his her bat without having previously been in contact with any fielder and is subsequently held by fielder as fair catch as described in 33.2 and 33.3 before it touches the ground. 33.2 fair catch 33.2.1 catch will be fair only if in every case either the ball at any time or any fielder in contact with the ball is not grounded beyond the boundary before the catch is completed. note laws 19.4 ball grounded beyond the boundary and 19.5 fielder grounded beyond the boundary . 33.2.2 furthermore catch will be fair if any of the following conditions applies 33.2.2.1 the ball is held in the hand or hands of fielder even if the hand holding the ball is touching the ground or is hugged to the body or lodges in the protective equipment worn by fielder or lodges accidently in fielder clothing. 33.2.2.2 fielder catches the ball after it has been lawfully struck more than once by the striker but only if it has not been grounded since it was first struck. see law 34 hit the ball twice . 33.2.2.3 fielder catches the ball after it has touched the wicket an umpire another fielder runner or the other batsman. 33.2.2.4 fielder catches the ball after it has crossed the boundary in the air provided that the conditions in 33.21 are met. 33.2.2.5 the ball is caught off an obstruction within the boundary that is not designated boundary by the umpires. 33.3 making catch the act of making catch shall start from the time when the ball first comes into contact with fielders person and shall end when fielder obtains complete control over both the ball and his her own movement. 33.4 no runs to be scored if the striker is dismissed caught runs from that delivery completed by the batsmen before the completion of the catch shall not be scored but any runs for penalties awarded to either side shall stand. law 18.12.1 batsman returning to wicket he she has left shall apply from the instant of the completion of the catch. 33.5 caught to take precedence if the criteria of 33.1 are met and the striker is not out bowled then he she is out caught even though decision against either batsman for another method of dismissal would be justified. in many cases it will be clear to the striker and others on the field that he she is out caught and the batsman will often leave the wicket without an appeal. equally however it is sometimes difficult for the umpire to decide. the umpire must have observed all that happens to the ball from immediately after seeing the bowler front foot land. by the time an appeal is made it is too late to gather the information needed. the requirements for the striker to be out caught are simple. the ball must have touched the striker bat. law 5.6 that the striker must have been holding touching the bat and that the whole of the glove on hand holding the bat counts as part of the bat. in the very rare case of batsman holding the bat with bare hands the hand or hands will count instead of the worn glove. after contact with the bat the ball must not touch the ground or any kind of boundary including fielders touching or grounded beyond the boundary. the catch must be completed by fielder within the field of play. judging these requirements may not always be so simple and each aspect is below. did the ball touch the bat 1. fine edge the sooner the umpire picks up the flight of the ball from the bowler hand the better chance he she has of seeing whether there was very fine contact with the edge of the bat. the umpire must look to see if there was any deflection of the ball as it passed the bat. if he she hears sound he she must know whether it was at the moment the ball passed the bat and whether the ball was then very close to the bat. the umpire must judge whether it was the sound of the ball striking the bat or the glove on the hand holding the bat and not for instance the bat hitting the striker boot or pad. whatever difficulties there may be the umpire must not guess. instead the umpire must judge on what he she observes about the flight of the ball and the movement of the bat. sometimes his her colleague can help if the contact was on the leg side hidden from the bowler end by the striker. as with any appeal the umpire must not be influenced by the strength of an appeal fielders will often claim catch for thin edge without being certain whether the ball has hit bat pad or nothing at all. if the bowler end umpire is unsure and the other umpire is unable to help he she must give the striker not out. 2. other contacts all that the law requires is that the ball touches the bat or by definition the hand holding the bat. it does not matter if the ball touched the striker person before or after it touched the bat. it does not matter whether the ball contact with the bat was intentional or inadvertent. it does not matter if it was part of legitimate second strike it does not matter if it was second strike whether it was the first or the second contact that was with the bat although in the case of double strike the ball must not have been grounded between the strikes. if the ball touched the bat and has not been grounded the striker can be out caught. was the ball grounded after contact with the bat point at which difficulty may arise is immediately after leaving the bat. if the striker hits the ball when it is near the ground sharp observation is needed to see whether the ball hits the ground before going further. such contact is often called bump or bumped ball. the angle of the bat as it strikes the ball the lower speed of the ball than the strength of the blow would suggest the ball rising more than are all pointers. the other umpire can often help from side on position. the ball that is grounded just before the fielder catches it is also difficult to discern. again concentration and the opinion of the other umpire if available and necessary can help and so can the honesty of the fielder but ultimately it is decision for the bowler end umpire. occasionally fielder will have his her fingers under the ball but the ball may brush some grass between those fingers. this is unlikely to be visible to the naked eye. although may be possible if the catch is taken close to the umpire but can be bone of contention in televised cricket. if the fielder fingers are underneath the ball and the ball does not strike the ground beneath his her hands the fact that it may have brushed blade of grass should not be considered as the ball being grounded. did the ball come into contact with anything else another problem is the catch near the boundary. the question of the fielder being within the field of play including boundary catching is discussed under law 19. additionally there may occasionally be some object within the field of play such as tree which has been designated boundary. if the ball hits it no catch can follow. where however such an object has not been designated boundary catch can be taken off it. apart from such rarities the obstacles the ball may encounter on its path and whether contact invalidates catch are set out in the chart below. in each case the assumption is that the ball has come directly from the striker bat and has not yet been grounded. catch possible yes no held in hand or hands of fielder even hand but not ball is touching the ground touches fielder person or protective equipment including the helmet touches fielder helmet on ground lodge in protective equipment including helmet of accidentally in fielders clothing lodges in keeper pads fielder deliberately uses clothing to field ball touches either batsman or runner touches either batsman or runner helmet lodges in either batman dad lodges in either batsman clothing trapped among items of either batsman clothing or equipment lodges in either batsman helmet touches stumps at bowler end touches stumps at keeper end sometimes touches stumps at keeper end in normal circumstances touches umpire lodges in umpire clothing fielder always includes wicket keeper keeper being specified here means only the wicket keeper. the ball strikes the stumps after leaving the striker bat he she would normally be out bowled so that even if the ball were caught bowled would take precedence. however the striker would not be out bowled in the rare case of the ball failing to dislodge bail. then catch would be possible. note also that the chart specifically the ball touching anything else between leaving the bat and striking the named object. however if the ball were to touch fielder between leaving the bat and hitting the stumps at the wicket keeper end the striker would not be out bowled. again catch would be possible and would if relevant over ride run out or stumped. it should be noted that if the ball lodges in fielder clothing catch can be valid. nevertheless the fielder cannot use his her clothing to deliberately make catch as covered under law 28. the lodging has to be accidental. it is also worth pointing out that in the past the ball coming into contact with fielder and wicket keepers helmet used to prevent catch from being taken. this is no longer the case. players fielding close to the wicket are to be encouraged to wear protective helmets not discouraged and the ball rebounding off or lodging in helmet can still be caught fairly. however for catch to be completed after lodging in the helmet the helmet must remain on the fielder head. if the ball lodges in the helmet and in the process knocks the helmet off the fielder head onto the ground it will be deemed to have made contact with the ground before the catch had been completed. did the fielder catch it fairly fielder does not have to catch the ball in his her hands he she might try to catch the ball high up but it slips through his her hands. it does not fall to the ground because it lodges in the made by the forearms and is held against his her body. this is an instance of hugged to his her body. instances have been known of catch being held between fielder knees there is more on the question of valid catches near the boundary under law 19. if the ball lodges in the fielder helmet he she does not have to remove the ball to claim the catch but must have control over it see below . did the fielder complete the catch this is vital issue. the fact that fielder interrupts the flight of the ball and holds it in his her hands does not necessarily mean that catch had been taken. there is no catch until fielder has completed it. the umpire has to be satisfied that the fielder has both complete control over the ball and complete control over his her own movement 1. control over the ball the fielder can catch the ball between his her knees but unless he she can keep it there even if he she overbalances the fielder has not completed the catch. diving catch which sees the ball knocked from the fielder hand as he she lands on the ground has not been completed. if the fielder can retain the ball it does not matter that the hand holding the ball is on the ground as long as the ball has been kept clear of the ground this will often be the case with low catches with the fielder fingers almost flat on the ground but the ball landing on top of them and thus never coming into contact with the ground. if the ball lodges in the fielder helmet then providing it is firmly wedged it is not necessary to remove it to complete the catch. however if the fielder movements immediately afterwards for throwing up his her hands to appeal cause the ball to fall from the grille of the helmet then there has not been control. it might also be that the force of the ball lodging in the grille of the helmet knocks it from the fielder head and as the helmet is now not worn the catch would not be valid. in both these situations the ball would not be dead. 2. control over his her movement diving catch taken when the fielder is in the air and nearly horizontal is again an . until the fielder has recovered after hitting the ground he she is not in control of his her movement. if fielder takes running catch he she will not have completed the catch until he she can stop running. sometimes fielder will continue running from sheer at having taken the catch. provided the umpire is satisfied that the fielder has control over his her running so that he she could stop within the field of play rather than being unable to the catch is completed. similarly if the ball lodging in the helmet causes the fielder to fall over and the helmet falls from the head it would not be catch but in this situation the ball would not be dead as the helmet was not deliberately removed by the fielder. the fielder falling over and the ball remaining in the worn helmet would however still be fair catch providing the ball did not touch the ground. was the fielder within the field of play this is crucial question on the taking of catch and used to be covered under caught. however it is now covered in detail in law 19 boundaries. no runs to be scored it may be some time before catch is completed if it is bit high into the air or is juggled between fielders the batsmen may run while that is happening. if the catch is not held the runs will count. if the catch is held the striker will be out and if dismissed the runs will not count. the end to which the non striker must go is dealt with in law 18.12. caught to take precedence it has already been stated in law 32 that bowled takes precedence over any other form of dismissal. caught is ne in priority taking precedence over everything bowled. if for instance the striker made an illegal second strike this would mean that he she was out hit the ball twice. if however one of these strikes was with the bat and the ball was caught without being grounded at any point the striker would be out caught even though the second strike came before the catch. there is slight complication here however. the ball becomes dead automatically at the fall of the wicket as in law 20.1.1.3. therefore if more than one dismissal is theoretically possible but an umpire gives decision on one of those methods before the other is completed it is the first decision that counts. for batsman may stand on his her stumps while playing pull shot into the air. if the batsman is out hit wicket while the ball is in the air the umpire should wait to see if the catch is taken and if it is he she should give the batsman out caught should the catch not be taken the umpire can then give the batsman out hit wicket. however if the umpire does not wait and instead gives the batsman out before the catch is taken then the dismissal is hit wicket. the same principle would apply to straight drive which deflected off the bowler onto the stumps before carrying to fielder on the full to be caught. if the non striker was out of his her ground when the wicket was put down then the non striker would only be dismissed run out if the umpire had given him her out before the catch was taken otherwise the catch would take precedence and it is the striker who would be out. the difference here is more marked than the first as it is different batsman that will be dismissed depending on when the out decision was made. the onus here is on the umpire who should wait to see if the catch is taken before making the decision. law 34 hit the ball twice 34.1 out hit the ball twice 34.1.1 the striker is out hit the ball twice if while the ball is in play it strikes any part of his her person or is struck by his her bat and before the ball has been touched by fielder the striker wilfully strikes it again with his her bat or person other than hand not holding the bat for the sole purpose of guarding his her wicket see 34.3 and law 37 obstructing the field . 34.1.2 for the purpose of this law struck or strike shall include contact with the person of the striker. 34.2 not out hit the ball twice the striker will not be out under this law if he she 34.2.1 strikes the ball second or subsequent time in order to return the ball to any fielder. note however the provisions of law 37.4 returning the ball to fielder 34.2.2 wilfully strikes the ball after it has touched fielder note however the provisions of law 371 out obstructing the field . 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once the striker may solely in order to guard his her wicket and before the ball has been touched by fielder lawfully strike the ball second or subsequent time with the bat or with any part of his her person other than hand not holding the bat. the striker may guard his her wicket even if the delivery is no ball. however the striker may not prevent the ball from being caught by striking the ball more than once in defence of his her wicket. see law 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught . 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once when the ball is lawfully struck more than once as permitted in 34.3 if the ball does not become dead for any reason the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the ball reaches the boundary or at the completion of the first run. however he she shall delay the call of dead ball to allow the opportunity for catch to be completed. the umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball to the scorers if applicable. award anyrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . 34.5 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. 34.5 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket the striker is not allowed to make deliberate second attempt to hit the ball once he she has touched it in one circumstance in order to defend his her wicket. it is not uncommon for ball to be hit twice accidentally bat pad is familiar phrase. there is no harm in this. unless second strike is deliberate it can be ignored. for convenience the te will refer to second strike but providing each is to defend his her wicket the striker can make as many as he she feels necessary. second or third... strike however belongs entirely to the time after the ball has been bowled and before fielder has touched it. once fielder has touched the ball the striker no longer has any right to hit it and if he she does will be subject to law 37 obstructing the field . although pushing the ball with the bat to return it to fielder could be categorised as wilful second strike if the ball is not dead and the fielding side have not given permission the striker is liable to dismissal under law 37 obstructing the field. the umpire has to make two judgments in order to give the striker out hit the ball twice was the second strike wilful if it was was it solely in defence of the striker wicket or not neither of these is usually difficult to determine although both are matter of judgment. was it strike in appendix .10.1 strike is defined as the ball being hit by the bat unless specifically defined otherwise. there is just such specific definition in this law. in this law the ball making contact with the striker person is to count as strike just as much as bat with ball contact. further although the first strike is subject to the restrictions discussed under leg byes in law 23 the striker can make legal second strike not necessarily with the bat but with any part of his her person hand not in contact with the bat. as an of lawful second strike the striker mishits the ball knocking it downwards with the toe of the bat. it fizzes backwards spinning violently towards the wicket the striker kicks the ball away from the stumps with his her back foot. apart from not being allowed to hit the ball at all once fielder has touched it there are just three restrictions on the second strike. it must solely be an attempt to stop the ball from hitting the wicket. it must not be with hand unless the hand is in contact with the bat. it must not interfere with fielder trying to take catch. if any of these restrictions is not observed the striker will be out hit the ball twice in the first case. obstructing the field in the second and third cases. was it in defence of his her wicket the law must be interpreted reasonably literally. defending his her wicket is literally trying to prevent the ball hitting the wicket. the umpire is not required to make as fine as judgment as he she must for lbw about whether the ball would certainly have hit the wicket but the ball must be going in that general direction. however the batsman is not protected from stopping himself herself being out. the striker cannot interfere with an attempted catch even if he she is trying to defend the wicket. that would be obstructing the field and the batsman would be out. on the other hand should no ball be called the striker is not at risk of being bowled so in that sense the wicket does not need defending. nevertheless he she is still entitled to try to stop the ball hitting the wicket. it would be unreasonable to the striker to work out the logic. of this in making an almost instinctive move to protect the stumps. however the ne paragraph about the striker motives will still apply. of course the delivery will not be valid and the one run penalty for the no ball will apply and will be signalled in addition to anything else relevant when the ball is dead. key phrase is for the sole purpose of. the sudden jab to push the ball away from the stumps is clear enough. in contrast powerful hit which sends the ball deep into the outfield may be defending the wicket but could not be regarded as solely for this purpose. even if the ball loops up so that the striker has little more time for consideration it is usually clear whether the second or third or fourth etc. stroke is for the sole purpose of guarding his her wicket. however the umpire must be alert to the possibility that there may be an additional motive. if the umpire considers there is then the striker will be out. no runs allowed recompense to the fielding side for the striker being allowed to defend his her wicket by second strike is that the batsmen are not allowed to score any runs from the delivery. this is the case whatever else happens second strike allows the batsman to protect his her wicket and that is it. if the batsmen attempt to run or in the unlikely event that the ball goes to the boundary the umpires should call and signal dead ball as described in 34.4 and disallow any attempted runs. note however that the umpire should delay the call of dead ball if there is the possibility of catch. any not out batsmen must be returned to their original ends. the only runs allowed from the delivery will be penalty for no ball if appropriate and anypenalty runs applicable this does not include penalty runs for the ball hitting the unworn fielder helmet on the ground behind the wicket keeper under law 28.3 . caught from lawful second strike if any of multiple strikes is on the bat then the striker can be out caught if the ball is not grounded from the first strike until the fielder catches it. person bat catch bat person catch bat bat catch are all valid catches. person ground bat catch is not valid for catch. nor is any other sequence if the ball is grounded at any point in the sequence after the first strike and before the catch is taken and completed. if second strike is not lawful and there is no caught opportunity then the striker is out hit the ball twice. if however valid catch is taken off this double strike caught will take precedence. law 35 hit wicket 35.1.1 out hit wicket 35.11 the striker is out hit wicket if after the bowler has entered the delivery stride and while the ball is in play his her wicket is put down by either the striker bat or person as described in laws 29.11.2 to 2911wicket put down in any of the following circumstances 35.1.1.1 in the course of any action taken by him her in preparing to receive or in receiving delivery. 35.1.1.2 in setting off for the first run immediately after playing or playing at the ball 35.1.1.3 if no attempt is made to play the ball in setting off for the first run providing that in the opinion of the umpire this is immediately after the striker has had the opportunity of playing the ball 35.1.1.4 in lawfully making second or further stroke for the purpose of guarding his her wicket within the provisions of law 343 ball lawfully struck more than once . 35.1.2 if the striker puts his her wicket down in any of the ways described in laws 29.11.2 to 29.11.4 before the bowler has entered the delivery stride either umpire shall call and signal dead ball. 35.2 not out hit wicket the striker is not out under this law should his her wicket be put down in any of the ways referred to in 351 if any of the following applies it occurs after the striker has completed any action in receiving the delivery other than in 35.1.1.2 to 35.1.1.4. it occurs when the striker is in the act of running other than setting off immediately for the first run. it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid being run out or stumped. it occurs when the striker is trying to avoid throw in at any time. the bowler after entering the delivery stride dos not deliver the ball in this case either umpire shall immediately call and signal dead ball. see law 204 umpire calling and signalling dead ball . the delivery is no ball. hit wicket is one of the three methods of dismissal for which the striker end umpire is responsible. as pointed out under law 21 it is vital that the striker end umpire turns his her attention to the striker the crease and the stumps as soon as he she has seen the bowler arm action he she must see if the wicket is broken and if so how and crucially when it was broken. although not relevant to hit wicket the striker end umpire must know whether the striker was in his her ground or not at the time it was put down to judge possible stumping or run out. the striker end umpire should also watch for the completion of the shot and any immediate setting off for run before turning their attention or head to follow the ball into the field to ensure hit wicket appeal can be answered if necessary. the essential features for hit wicket are the bowler must deliver the ball the delivery must not be no ball the wicket is put down by the striker including the striker clothing equipment etc. whether worn or held or not rather than the ball when the striker does so the bowler must have already entered his her delivery stride. the end point of the period during which the striker may be out hit wicket is set out in the detail below. 1. the bowler must deliver the ball. it must not be no ball if because he she sees the striker dislodge bail from his her wicket or for any other reason the bowler stops in his her run up either before or after entering the delivery stride the umpire must call and signal dead ball for the non delivery. any appeal must be answered not out. that the delivery is not to be no ball is straightforward. 2. how the striker puts down his her wicket it is unlikely though not impossible that the striker will knock stump out of the ground but very possible that he she may dislodge bail with the bat or person including any clothing or equipment that fall off him her . the striker putting down his her own wicket is one of only two situations in the laws in which items which are not part of his her bat or person are included as though they were. elsewhere in the laws apart from the specific situation in law 30.1.2 mention of the bat implies it is being held. here it counts even if the striker has let go of it even if it breaks and the striker is holding one part and the other part falls onto the stumps. either part will count. similarly in appendix .12 only items of clothing or equipment that are attached to the striker are defined as part of the batsman person. nevertheless even though they are not part of his her person cap or glasses or any other detachable items can be agents for putting down the wicket. it is important to realise that such items count only in the process of falling from the striker while in the act of receiving playing at the ball or immediately setting off for their first run. 3. when the striker puts down his her wicket there is very clear starting point for the period during which the striker is liable to be out hit wicket. it is when the bowler enters the delivery stride. from that point onwards if any movement the striker makes in preparing to receive the ball or in receiving the ball causes the wicket to be put down the striker is out hit wicket. the striker end umpire will have been watching the bowler arm action. if when he she turns his her attention to the stumps and creases at the striker end the wicket is already broken the umpire may have been aware of it happening or may have to rely on the bowler end umpire to determine whether it happened before the bowler entered the delivery stride or in that short period between then and release of the ball. bail may of course have come off accidentally but the bowler end umpire may have called dead ball for that. consultation may be necessary if it is not clear preparing to receive the ball includes any movement of the bat for the striker back lift or any movement of his her feet perhaps to get into the line of the ball before the ball reaches the striker receiving the ball is as much lifting the bat to let the ball through without trying to play it as actually making stroke to try to hit it. it includes any follow through swing of the bat after hitting or trying to hit the ball. it also includes any body movement to recover balance after making the stroke which may go on for some time and is usually the hardest part of this law to judge. during all this time the striker can be out hit wicket if he she puts the wicket down. furthermore the striker could still be out if he she sets out immediately for run and in doing so puts the wicket down. the striker end umpire will have to judge what immediately is especially if the striker has not actually played the ball. after that hit wicket is no longer risk unless after originally receiving the ball the striker makes second stroke to defend his her wicket. this will usually be very soon after the first strike when the striker sees his her wicket is in danger. striker may not be out law 35.2 lists the situations in which the striker even though he she has put down his her wicket will nevertheless not be out hit wicket. the majority of these have been addressed above. the other points avoiding stumping run out or throw from fielder are self . law 36 leg before wicket 36.1 out lbw the striker is out lbw if all the circumstances set out in 36.1.1 to 36.1.5 apply. 36.1.1 the bowler delivers ball not being no ball 36.1.2 the ball if it is not intercepted full pitch pitches in line between wicket and wicket or on the off side of the striker wicket 36.1.3 the ball not having previously touched his her bat the striker intercepts the ball either full pitch or after pitching with any part of his her person 36.1.4 the point of impact even if above the level of the bails either is between wicket and wicket or if the striker has made no genuine attempt to play the ball with the bat is between wicket and wicket or outside the line of the off stump. 36.1.5 but for the interception the ball would have hit the wicket. 36.2 interception of the ball 36.2.1 in assessing points in 36.1.3 36.1.4 and 36.1.5 only the first interception is to be considered. 36.2.2 in assessing point 36.1.3 if the ball makes contact with the striker person and bat simultaneously this shall be considered as the ball having first touched the bat. 36.2.3 in assessing point 36.1.5 it is to be assumed that the path of the ball before interception would have continued after interception irrespective of whether the ball might have pitched subsequently or not. 36.3 off side of wicket the off side of the striker wicket shall be determined by the striker stance at the moment the ball comes into play for that delivery. see appendix .13. lbw could be described as high profile law. most umpires tend to be judged by players and followers of the game by their ability to get lbw decisions right particularly in the professional game where they are closely. the requirements to be met for an umpire to uphold an appeal for lbw are clear although judging them is not always so easy. they are set out in logical sequence in law 36.1. it must be stressed as in the first sentence of law 36.1 that all the circumstances must apply. the only real variation is provided by law 36.1.4 with its either or option. the other point at which there are apparent alternatives is in law 36.1.3 stating that the ball may pitch first or may hit the striker person without having pitched. there is no real practical variation here. the requirements about where the ball must pitch simply become irrelevant if it doesn pitch. being prepared for an appeal since all these requirements belong to the behaviour of the ball before it hits the striker it is obvious that they will have occurred without the umpire knowing beforehand whether there is going to be an appeal. the umpire must therefore be aware on every delivery in addition to all the other things he she must be mindful of whether or not the ball is no ball where the ball pitches if it pitches at all what the path of the ball is after it pitched whether it misses the striker completely or first hits the striker person or first hits the bat if it hits the person first either after pitching or full pitch where the striker is in relation to the stumps at that time and whether the striker is attempting to play the ball with his her bat and finally where the ball path was taking it at that time. with it will become matter of almost unconscious habit to observe all these things and more every time the ball is bowled. much of the information will be required for adjudicating on other situations anyway. clearly the most difficult part of the decision is the last item in the list above. others can however sometimes cause problems. it can be difficult to see if the ball hit the bat or not very fine edge and if it did whether it was before or after it hit the striker person. it can also be difficult at times to see if the part of the striker that was hit was in line between wicket and wicket. the striker will often move away quickly. the umpire must judge on where the striker was at the moment of impact. where did the ball pitch being round object the ball pitches on its lowest point which is its middle. it is this point that the umpire must judge. anywhere outside leg stump will keep alive the possibility of lbw. on the line of leg stump will do. beyond it will not. it is crucial to note that if the ball does not pitch and hits the batsman on the full outside the line of leg stump this also means that the batsman cannot under any circumstances be given out lbw. the ball delivered by left arm over the wicket bowler has pitched outside leg stump whatever else happens this cannot be out lbw. did the ball hit the bat before hitting the person whether the ball did or did not get fine edge on the bat before hitting the striker is no less difficult than the same judgment for catch behind. batsman playing defensively will almost certainly have the bat close to his her pad often behind it as already discussed in law 23. sharp observation is needed to be sure since touch on the bat before hitting the person means that an appeal for lbw must fail. if the ball struck the pad first the possibility of lbw remains alive. an umpire who is not sure must not guess but it is not fair to the bowler and his her side if the umpire persistently takes refuge in being unsure. an umpire must watch with the utmost concentration to be sure in as many cases as possible which was hit first. the law gives clear guidance that if the impact on bat and person is simultaneous then it is to be judged to have hit the bat first. this is most often useful for international matches with slow motion replays. umpires not able to use such technology will watch as closely as possible but if they are unsure which was hit first or believe it to be simultaneous must give the batsman the benefit of the doubt. umpires must also remember that it is not only case of the first impact being on the striker person rather than the bat it is only the first impact on the striker which is to be considered at all. if the ball hits the front pad and then goes on to hit the other pad this second impact is irrelevant. was the point at which the striker was hit in line between wicket and wicket if the striker is only partly in front of the wicket this judgment is not too difficult. more often however he she will be completely hiding the stumps. it is helpful when first going out to the pitch before there is batsman in the way for the umpire to study carefully how the pitch looks and how theinch 22.86cm strip of grass between the wickets looks. the ine umpire is often surprised to see what narrow strip it is. there may well be signs such as lighter patch of grass worn patch on length that will help the umpire to build mental picture of the stumps behind the striker body. it can be useful to study the pitch without the players before play begins to what theinch strip of grass between the wickets looks like on that particular pitch. as the game progresses the bowler footmarks at the er end may provide more points of reference. where was the ball path taking it when it hit the striker to answer this question the umpire must first have good picture of where the ball was going before it hit the striker. cannot be stated too often how important it is for the umpire to switch attention from the bowler feet to the might of the ball at the earliest possible moment. the umpire first point of information is the bowler delivery stride. was it close to the stumps as wide out on the return crease as fair delivery would allow or somewhere in between this will give valuable information about the angle of flight from delivery point towards the opposite end. it is worth noting that bowler bowling round the wicket inevitably bowls from wider angle than one bowling over the wicket with his her feet similarly placed. the actual flight is also informative. was the ball swinging how well flighted was it how fast was it although the umpire will know that in general the bowler is quick medium or slow every delivery is likely to have some variation of speed. the umpire needs to gauge the pace and flight. both will affect how the ball will come off the pitch when it hits the ground. if it doesn pitch all this information is what the umpire needs to know about where the ball was going when it hits the striker. when the ball pitches if it does it will alter its path even if only from descending to ascending. first how quickly did the ball rise if it rises sharply and at good pace it is possible that it would have gone over the top of the stumps. slower ball on the other hand might not. very often however the ball will also deviate after pitching. the path of the ball as it hits the striker is what will determine whether or not it would have hit the wicket. the umpire must therefore have seen enough of its path after pitching to know what that path is. the fact that the umpire has good information from before pitching means that the way it changes can inform what he she needs to know. if the umpire waited until the ball pitched before taking an interest he she would have little hope of being sure what it did thereafter. the greater the distance between pitching and impact the more information and evidence the umpire has in order to judge the ongoing path of the ball. how certain the umpire can be about the ball flight will depend on the pace of the ball its previous flight and on the alertness of observation by the umpire. in general the faster the delivery the less time it will take between pitching and impact and therefore the greater the distance required to assess its path. it will become easier with . the practised umpire will have accumulated knowledge of the way that moving balls behave just as good fielder knows where the ball will be by the time it arrives. the basic requirement to give decision is did the umpire see enough of the ball travel after pitching to know what its final path was if the ball strikes the batsman on the full the umpire must ignore whether the ball might deviate if it is likely to pitch before it reaches the wicket. the ball may hit the striker low down or be dropping rapidly as it hits the pad. in this case the umpire is to assume that there would have been no lateral deviation of the path if being low the ball would have subsequently hit the ground before reaching the stumps. if ball is swinging in the air before impact it should be assumed to be continuing to swing after impact but ball that was straight should be assumed to continue to go straight whether or not previous deliveries have spun or seamed off the pitch. would the ball have hit the wicket it is temptation for the umpire to read into the behaviour of the ball things which have not been observed by relying on the way previous balls have behaved. for instance the umpire may consciously or subconsciously think this is an off spin bowler. all the previous balls have turned so this one turned previous balls however did not strike the pad so this one could well be different the umpire must resolutely ignore previous deliveries and judge this ball on its own merits strictly on what has been observed about it. having decided what its final path before impact is deciding whether the ball would have hit the wicket is simply matter of sufficient in that path in the umpire mind onward to the stumps. one very important point for consideration is how far does the ball still have to travel to reach the stumps if the striker pad is only two feet it is often more in front of the popping crease when hit the ball would have had to travel another six feet before reaching the stumps. umpires must remember that in the case of the striker not having tried to hit the ball with his bat the point of impact on the striker and the point where it would have reached the wicket. must both be within theinch strip between wicket and wicket. this means that the last section of travel must be fairly straight parallel to the edges of theinch strip . if the striker has played forward the front leg may befeet in front of the popping crease and sofeet in front of the stumps. if the impact is in line with off stump ball coming in from the off can move sideways onlyinch per foot of travel if it is not to miss leg stump. if the striker is hit in front of middle stump this amount of onward movement is reduced to half that. the path of ball which has turned considerably or that of swinging ball will almost certainly not meet this requirement. the continuation of such paths will be outside leg probably by good margin. it follows that the further forward the striker is when hit the further the ball would still have had to travel the straighter the path would have to be if it is to remain within theinch strip until reaching the level of the stumps. the umpire must not assume that every batsman playing forward is immune. it is perfectly possible for batsman to be out lbw but the margin for error is small and the umpire must be entirely sure of his her observations. the balls with the best chance of remaining within theinch strip are those whose deflection on pitching straightens them. striker not trying to play the ball with the bat as indicated in the question on whether the striker was in line between wicket and wicket there is further scenario to consider although very little changes in this situation. only the second part of law 36.1.4 applies. if the striker is hit in line between wicket and wicket that is straightforward but in addition lbw is still possible even if the impact is outside off stump. the effect of this is that turning ball will have more chance than otherwise of securing an lbw dismissal. the last part of the travel can be at greater angle to the line between wicket and wicket and still satisfy the conditions. the difference is that if the ball impacts the striker outside the line of the off stump then he she is only protected from being considered for lbw if making genuine attempt to hit the ball with the bat. the problems facing the umpire in deciding whether the striker has tried to play the ball with the bat are the same as those considered when allowing or disallowing leg byes under law 23. the batsman has been hit by the ball plumb in front of middle stump but there is no guarantee of it being out lbw. the batsman has been hit by the ball plumb in front of middle stump but the ball pitched outside the leg stump. not out the batsman has been hit by the ball plumb in front of middle stump but the ball would have gone over the top of the stumps. not out. the batsman has been hit by the ball plumb in front of middle stump but the ball had hit the bat first. not out. the batsman has been hit plumb in front of middle stump but the ball is swinging and would have missed leg stump. not out. here the batsman has been hit in front of leg stump by four different deliveries. ballthe ball is going towards leg. the distance left to travel means it would miss leg stump. not out. ballthe movement towards leg is slight. the ball will probably clip leg stump. ballthe ball is going straight towards the leg stump. this would be given out lbw. ballthis ball has pitched outside leg stump and cannot be out lbw. the batsman is hit outside off stump. but with the bat hidden behind the pad he is not likely to be trying to hit the ball. lbw is still possibility the batsman is hit outside off stump and is not trying to hit the ball. ballthe swing means this may be missing the stumps. ballthis is going to hit the stumps. out lbw. ballthis is going straight on and is therefore missing the off stump. not out. the batsman is clearly not trying to hit the ball with the bat. the ball is headed for the stumps so that is out lbw. the off side of the wicket whatever is the off side of the field when the ball comes in to play remains the off side until the ball is dead even though the striker may change stance from right handed to left handed or vice versa . this clarifies the position for the reverse sweep and the switch hit. in the latter case fewer deliveries will be wides so fewer one run penalties will accrue to the batting side. batsman reach is naturally greater on the off side than on the leg side. remember that as covered in law 22 ball is not wide unless it is out of reach from where the striker is and where he she would be in normal guard position. although from the umpire point of view in making any lbw decisions the off side stays the same throughout from the point of view of the batsman reach he she now has two off sides one normal guard position the other the new stance in the other direction. the striker has two sides with greater theoretical reach. apart from lbw the fact that the off side of the field does not change when the batsman switches stance is important for consideration of leg side fielders behind the popping crease. because the off side stays the same any appeal for lbw that would have been upheld in his original stance would still be upheld. even though the batsman may feel that balls are coming from the leg side it is in fact still officially the off side. this is an appropriate point to remind umpires that if ball pitches outside leg or if the striker is first hit outside leg whether the ball pitches or not no appeal for lbw can be considered. law 37 obstructing the field 37.1 out obstructing the field 37.1.1 either batsman is out obstructing the field if in the circumstances of 37.2 and while the ball is in play. he she wilfully attempts to obstruct or distract the fielding side by word or action. see also law 34 hit the ball twice . 37.1.2 the striker is out obstructing the field if in the circumstances of 37.2. in the act of receiving ball delivered by the bowler he she wilfully strikes the ball with hand not holding the bat. this will apply whether it is the first strike or second or subsequent strike. the act of receiving the ball shall both to playing at the ball and to striking the ball more than once in defence of his her wicket. 37.1.3 this law will apply whether or not no ball is called. 37.2 not out obstructing the field batsman shall not be out obstructing the field if obstruction or distraction is accidental. or obstruction is in order to avoid injury. or in the case of the striker he she makes second or subsequent strike to guard his her wicket lawfully as in law 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once . however see 37.3 37.3 obstructing ball from being caught 37.3.1 if the delivery is not no ball the striker is out obstructing the field if wilful obstruction or distraction by either batsman prevents the striker being out caught. 37.3.2 37.3.1 shall apply even if an obstruction is caused by the striker in lawfully guarding his her wicket under the provision of law 34.3 ball lawfully struck more than once . 37.3.3 if an obstruction or distraction takes place from no ball then the batsman who caused the obstruction or distraction will be out obstructing the field. 37.3.4 37.3.3 shall not apply if the striker obstructs while instinctively defending his her wicket with lawful second strike. 37.4 returning the ball to fielder either batsman is out obstructing the field if at any time while the ball is in play and without the consent of fielder. he she uses the bat or any part of his her person to return the ball to any fielder. 37.5 runs scored when either batsman is dismissed obstructing the field 37.5.1 unless the obstruction prevents catch from being made any runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be scored together with any runs awarded for penalties to either side. see laws 18.6 runs awarded for penalties and 18.8 runs scored when batsman is dismissed . 37.5.2 if the obstruction prevents catch from being made any runs completed by the batsmen shall not be scored but any penalties awarded to either side shall stand. 37.6 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. the general rule is that either batsman is out obstructing the field if while the ball is in play he she wilfully attempts to obstruct or distract the fielding side by word or action. all forms of obstructing the field including the special cases described below can occur off no ball and the bowler does not get credit for any of them. there are three to the general rule the obstruction or distraction was accidental the obstruction was in order to avoid injury the striker made second or subsequent strike to guard his wicket lawfully without preventing catch. out obstructing the field whilst this law covers any wilful obstruction or distraction of the fielding side by word or deed it describes number of specific cases the first in law 37.1.2 is when the striker touches the ball in play with his her hand not holding the bat during the act of playing at the ball whether it is the first or subsequent strike and includes any second strike with the non bat hand in defence of his her wicket. the second specific case is when either batsman wilfully prevents ball from being caught by fielder by obstructing that fielder by word or action. this could be the striker attempting to hit the ball second time with bat or person even if this second strike was in lawful defence of his her wicket. the right of the fielder to take the catch takes precedence over the right of the striker to defend their wicket. either batsmen wilfully obstructing the taking of catch where the obstruction can take number of different forms including shouting to distract fielder. or running into the fielder path. this is discussed further below. the situation where either batsman touches the ball with hand not holding the bat after the ball has been played by the striker is covered by the general statement in law 37.1.1 or as part of the third specific case. the third specific case is in law 37.4 which describes the intervention of either batsman to return the ball to fielder without permission while the ball is in play. this might be either tapping the ball back with the bat kicking it with foot or picking it up and throwing it back with hand not holding the bat. however any act by batsman designed to reduce the capacity of the fielding side to field the ball or secure dismissal is obstructing the field. the word designed is important. it is only when such acts are wilful that they become obstruction. it is important for the umpire to distinguish wilful behaviour from attempts by the batsman to avoid injury. on the other hand the umpire should be aware of more subtle ways batsman may act wilfully such as batsman deliberately changing course in running to try to block the path of the ball being thrown in for run out attempt. this last is being seen more commonly. although it is hard to know if the intention is to block the ball batsman who changes direction while running particularly one who changes direction to run on the pitch or takes any other route that would not be the quickest way to the other end is making wilful act detours around the bowler are acceptable of course. sometimes batsman will not even change direction but will deliberately run down the protected area in order to block potential throw by the wicket keeper to the bowler end. this too could result in batsman being out obstructing the field. in elite cricket where camera replays are available it might be possible to see what the batsman intention is particularly if the batsman has taken look to see where the ball is going if the batsman is hit under these circumstances it is more than likely that he she will be out obstructing the field though not always. for if the direction change is an attempt to avoid injury then the batsman should never be adjudged out obstructing the field. however if the umpire is satisfied that the action was wilful and of course if the ball is in play and if there is an appeal the umpire should be prepared to dismiss batsman. the fact that the particular throw would not have hit the stumps or run out the batsman is irrelevant. which batsman is out and what happens subsequently will depend on the specific act of obstruction. there was case some while ago when running batsman realising he would not make his ground in time threw his bat at the stumps to break the wicket. as he was in the act of running he could not be out hit wicket. he was however out obstructing the field as the fielding side were prevented from breaking the wicket directly with the ball to run him out and would take time to replace at least one bail or pull stump out with ball in hand to do so. was the obstruction wilful batsman when running is intent on making his her ground and may possibly collide with fielder especially if the fielder is also moving quickly to field the ball. if following such collision there is an appeal the decision will hinge on whether or not the collision was deliberate or accidental. the bowler end umpire is tasked with making this decision and the law does not require him her to consult the other umpire although it is often useful to do so. the bowler end umpire may have had clear view of what happened and give decision. if not however his her colleague at the striker end may have had better view from his her side on position and should be consulted. obstructing catch batsman is certainly guilty of obstructing the field if at any time he she deliberately interferes with fielder trying to take catch. this may be by carefully timed shout or in any other way. it is not restricted to the special case of second strike to defend his her wicket. if catch is obstructed it does not matter which batsman is guilty it is the striker who is out after all it is the striker who would have been out if the catch had been taken. for any other obstruction it is the batsman causing it who is out. if no ball had been called then although fielder might be trying to catch the ball it will not be catch. distraction by batsman will still be obstruction however. in this case it will be the batsman who caused the distraction who is out as catch was not involved. runs scored if batsman is dismissed under this law runs scored follow the general principle that the run in progress does not count because the batsman is dismissed. all completed runs before the offence will count and one run penalty for wide or no ball will stand as usual together with any other appropriate penalty runs awarded. which end the new batsman will go to will depend on whether the batsmen had crossed at the moment of the offence. however on the same principle that no runs are scored if the striker is out caught if the obstruction prevents catch not only will it always be the striker who is out but no runs penalties will be scored. this is case where the scorers may well be in doubt as to the method of dismissal and even as to the number of runs to be recorded. the umpire should make sure they have this information at the earliest opportunity. law 38 run out 38.1 out run out either batsman is out run out as in 38.2. if. at any time while the ball is in play. he she is out of his her ground and his her wicket is fairly put down by the action of fielder even though no ball has been called in the circumstances of 38.2.2.2 and whether or not run is being attempted. 38.2 batsman not out run out 38.2.1 batsman is not out run out in the circumstances of 38.2.1.1 or 38.2.1.2. 38.2.1.1 he she has been within his her ground and has subsequently left it to avoid injury. when the wicket is put down. note also the provisions of law 30.1.2 when out of his her ground . 38.2.1.2 the ball delivered by the bowler has not made contact with fielder before the wicket is put down. 38.2.2 the striker is not out run out in any of the circumstances in 38.2.2.1 and 38.2.2.2. 38.2.2.1 he she is out stumped. see laws 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner and 39.1.2 out stumped . 38.2.2.2 no ball has been called and he she is out of his her ground not attempting run and the wicket is fairly put down by the wicket keeper without the intervention of another fielder. however if the striker has runner and the runner is out of his her ground then only 38.1 applies. 38.3 which batsman is out the batsman out in the circumstances of 38.1 is the one whose ground is at the end where the wicket is put down. see laws 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner and 30.2 which is batsman ground . 38.4 runs scored if either batsman is dismissed run out the run in progress when the wicket is put down shall not be scored but any runs completed by the batsmen shall stand together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. see laws 18.6 runs awarded for penalties and 18.8 runs scored when batsman is dismissed . if however striker who has runner is himself herself dismissed run out and runs are completed by the runner and the other batsman before the wicket is put down all runs to the batting side from that delivery shall be disallowed. the one run penalty for no ball shall stand andrun penalties shall be allowed. the umpire shall return the non striker to his her original end. see law 25.6 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner . 38.5 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. the basic application of this law is simple. the ball is in play. batsman is out of his her ground. the wicket at his her end is fairly put down by the fielding side. the batsman is out run out. his her ground which ground belongs to which batsman has been fully discussed under law 30 including all the complications of two batsmen in the same ground and of an injured batsman who has runner. when the wicket is put down which batsman is out rests on an understanding of which batsman ground is at that end. if there is runner it is not as complicated as it might seem. it will always be normal decision based on the positions of the runner and the non striker only in one situation. if the injured striker with runner is out of his her ground which is always at the wicket keeper end and the wicket is put down at that end the injured striker will be out regardless of the positions of the other two. law 25.6 defines whether the striker is out stumped or run out. this situation is discussed in more detail later. when batsman will not be run out 1. avoiding injury batsman in his her ground may fear that ball being thrown in to the wicket may hit his her ankle and jump in the air to avoid being hurt. if the wicket is put down while he she is in the air the batsman will not be run out. similarly perhaps batsman moves out of his her ground to avoid potential collision with fielder or umpire. again the batsman would not be out run out. the two points are he she must have been within his her ground. he she must have left it only to avoid injury. the first is matter of fact the second matter of judgment. it will usually not be difficult for the umpire to make this judgment. 2. in continuing his her running law 30.1 defines when batsman is in or out of his her ground and law 30.1.2 makes an so that when batsman is running or diving he she may not need to maintain contact with the ground at all times. the two points needed to give the batsman this immunity are that he she is running or diving to gain or regain his her ground. has grounded any part of his her person or the bat in hand behind the popping crease before the wicket is put down. this is in more detail under law 30. in game without the benefit of cameras it is unlikely but not impossible that an umpire could discern that both batsman and bat were in the air at the precise moment that the wicket was put down. it does mean however that once the umpire has seen some part of the batsman person or bat grounded behind the popping crease he she need not worry about what happens if the batsman continues running or diving in the same direction. however the ball will not be dead so further action might take place. 3. ball not touched by fielder the striker is not run out if the ball delivered by the bowler has not made contact with any fielder before the wicket put down. this covers three situations. the bowler is entitled under law 41.16 to run out the non striker who has left his her ground too soon as long as the attempt is made before the point at which the bowler would normally release the ball. once the bowler delivers the ball it must then be touched by another fielder before run out can be attempted. when the striker hits the ball it cannot yet have been touched by fielder if it has which is very rare no ball will have been called . if the ball then breaks the wicket at the bowler end even though the non striker may be out of his her ground the non striker will not be run out if fielder which obviously includes the bowler has still not touched the ball since it left the striker bat. striker cannot be out bowled if no ball has been called. if the ball breaks his her wicket technically it has been put down by the opposing side. this provision of law ensures that the failed bowled will not simply turn into run out if the striker is out of his her ground unless fielder has touched the ball since it left the bowler hand. the fielder is of course not entitled to do so until after the striker has had an opportunity to play the ball. however if the bowler throws the ball towards the striker wicket before entering his her delivery stride because for the striker is advancing down the pitch then although no ball will be called the striker can be run out if the throw is successful. see law 21.4 4. out stumped stumped is special form of run out. the interlocking of run out and stumped is discussed in the ne law. the proviso in this law affirms that if the method of dismissal is stumped this will over ride run out. 5. special case of not out stumped as the paragraph above notes if batsman is out stumped they would also meet all the conditions of run out. however if the delivery is no ball the batsman cannot be out stumped. because batsman can be run out off no ball that would mean that any time batsman is stumped off no ball he she would simply be given out run out. to ensure this is not the case law 38.2.2.2 stipulates that even though the requirements for run out have been met if the batsman is not attempting run and only the wicket keeper has touched the ball then run out is not an option the only to this is covered below under striker who has runner . ball rebounding off helmet if either wicket is put down by ball rebounding from any fielder helmet which is being worn then the batsman at that end is still liable to be run out. the helmet is considered as part of the fielder person as it is legitimate protective equipment. if the ball rebounds off fielder unworn helmet on the ground it immediately becomes dead on contact so there is no question of dismissal. if the ball rebounds from either batsmen helmet it is still in play and any normal dismissal is possible including run out as long as fielder has touched the ball since it left the bowler hand. striker who has runner if the injured batsman who has runner is not the striker the question of being run out rests entirely on whether the runner is run out. if however the injured batsman is the striker then any of the injured striker his her runner or the non striker may be run out. law 30 makes it clear that the injured striker end is always at the wicket keeper end never at the bowler end. the first consequence of this is that if the wicket is put down at the bowler end the injured striker cannot be run out. the umpire is to decide which of the runner or non striker if either is out on the normal basis for two batsmen. if however the wicket is put down at the wicket keeper end with both the injured striker and the non striker out of their ground the question could arise as to whether it is the injured striker who is out or the other batsman. law 25 and law 30 together make it clear that if the injured striker is out of his her ground he she will be the one who is out regardless of where the runner and the non striker are. he she will be stumped if the conditions in law 25.6.5 and law 39 stumped apply. otherwise the injured striker is run out even if no ball has been called. if the injured striker is in his her ground the decision is again on the normal basis for the other two batsmen. if it is the runner who is out then automatically the injured striker is out. runs scored law 38.4 sets out the runs scored. normally when batsman is out run out completed runs only will be scored in addition to penalties. the run in progress is not scored though of course it is relevant in determining which batsman is nearer to the end at which the wicket is put down and thus who is out. when the striker who has runner is him herself run out which will always be at the wicket keeper end any runs taken are to be disallowed and the non striker returned to the original end as set out in law 25.6.6. only penalties can be scored but not those for the ball hitting the fielder helmet on the ground behind the wicket keeper. the chart summarises the above facts about run out dismissal and runs scored. striker who has runner run out wicket put down at bowler end ignore injured striker consider positions of other two normal run out applies completed runs and penalties ok new batsman to end where wicket fell wicket put down at keeper end striker in his her ground striker out of his her ground ignore injured striker consider positions of other two normal run out applies completed runs penalties not out batsman goes to opposite end to where wicket fell only injured striker can be out ignore other two no runs but penalties ok ball hitting helmet new batsman goes to the end where the injured striker had previously been of course if the runner is out the injured batsman is automatically out by definition but runs will be scored on the normal basis. if there are two runners one of them is always to be regarded as an ordinary non striker. in order to record the correct number of runs the scorers will certainly need to know if it was the striker who was run out or whether he she was out because the runner was. the umpire should inform the scorers especially if runs are disallowed. field technique it cannot be said too often that whenever the batsmen are running the umpires must be in position to see the wickets and the creases at their respective ends and to see where the batsmen are. they need to see that if the wicket is put down it is fairly put down to know whether or not the batsman was in his her ground at that time to be aware whether and when the batsmen cross during the run to watch for short running. the striker end umpire is already in good position for this though he she may have to dodge quickly to one side if fielder moves across his her line of vision. if there is runner where to stand him herself and where to place the runner has been set out under law 25. it will take time for the bowler end umpire to reach the ideal position for adjudicating on events at his her wicket. he she must remain at the wicket until the ball has been hit in case there are any events at the striker end on which he she must judgment. then the umpire must move very quickly. he she must develop sense of where the players are and where they may be running to to avoid getting in their way while moving. he she also needs to avoid getting in the path of the throw in. this has already been discussed in more detail in law 29. if the ball is returned to the stumps very quickly the bowler end umpire may not have time to get as far as he she would wish. he she must get to the best position achievable in the time. that means being able to see the stumps the crease and the running batsman and the umpire must also have his her head stationary at the moment when fine judgment has to be made about the grounding of the bat and the breaking of the wicket. particular difficulty is the ball hit hard by the striker back to the bowler end stumps. getting any distance from the stumps in this case is impossible but if safe to do so he she may be able to get sideways or at least diagonal view of the action. the umpire must see where the non striker is when the wicket is put down. he she must also see whether fielder touched the ball before the wicket was put down. when there is run out attempt at one end the umpire at the other end will realise this possibility and will watch to see whether or not the batsmen had crossed before the wicket is put down. if the run out decision is close one the problem of crossing is likely to be an easier task. law 39 stumped 39.1 out stumped 39.1.1 the striker is out stumped as in 39.3 if ball which is delivered is not called no ball and he she is out of his her ground other than as in 39.3.1 and he she has not attempted run when his her wicket is fairly put down by the wicket keeper without the intervention of another fielder. note however laws 25.6.2 and 25.6.5 dismissal and conduct of batsman and his her runner and 27.3 position of wicket keeper . 39.1.2 the striker is out stumped if all the conditions of 39.11 are satisfied even though decision of run out would be justified. 39.2 ball rebounding from wicket keeper person if the wicket is put down by the ball it shall be regarded as having been put down by the wicket keeper if the ball rebounds on to the stumps from any part of the wicket keeper person or equipment has been kicked or thrown on to the stumps by the wicket keeper. 39.3 not out stumped 39.3.1 the striker will not be out stumped if after having received the delivery he she has left his her ground in order to avoid injury. 39.3.2 if the striker is not out stumped he she may in the circumstances of law 38.2.22 batsman not out run out be out run out if the conditions of law 38.1 out run out apply. stumped is special case of run out. only the striker can be stumped either batsman can be run out. the bowler will get credit for stumping but not for run out. the basic conditions for run out are the batsman must be out of his her ground the wicket at his her end must be put down fairly by the fielding side while he she is out of the ground. these are also the basic requirements for the striker to be out stumped but three more conditions are added to these the delivery must not be no ball the striker must not be attempting run the putting down of the wicket must be by the wicket keeper alone without any other fielder being involved. if the first two conditions of the total of five are met but any of the last three are not then the decision can revert back as it were to run out. law 39.3.2 spells this out but also sets out two specific situations where stumped will not apply. if all of the above apply but the injured striker runner is also out of his her ground then the striker is not stumped but is run out. it is the same principle as stated in clause 38.2.2.2 of run out. if all the conditions for stumped are met that no ball is called then not only will the striker not be out stumped he she will not be out run out either. however if the injured striker runner is out of his her ground then the runner and hence the injured striker will be out run out even if it is no ball. this is because runner whose only role is to run will always be considered to be attempting run if he she is out of his her ground. this is one of the methods of dismissal within the jurisdiction of the striker end umpire. wicket put down by the wicket keeper alone law 39.2 defines what is meant by being put down by the wicket keeper . for stumping to be possible put down by the wicket keeper is not enough. the wicket keeper must be the only fielder in contact with the ball before the breaking of the wicket. intervention of another fielder need not be intentional. if the ball rebounds off the slip fielder boot then slip has intervened and stumping is not possible though run out might be. usually the wicket keeper will put the wicket down with the ball in hand. he she may equally do so by throwing or even kicking the ball onto the stumps. further even if the ball rebounds from the wicket keeper person or worn protective equipment whether accidentally or not the striker is liable to be out either stumped or run out depending on whether the ball makes contact with another fielder batsman not attempting run it is precisely because he she has moved forward to play the ball that striker may be at risk of being stumped. if the striker misses the ball and it goes through towards the wicket keeper standing up he she will likely be aware of the danger and be only too an to return to his her ground immediately. it will therefore not be difficult to distinguish between movement made to play the ball and an attempt to run. it should be noted that if the striker has left his her ground to avoid injury that will protect the batsman from being stumped. since only the wicket keeper can be involved it will be rare for the ball to come from direction where the striker might be injured but it can happen. it should be noted that if batsman is trying to avoid injury from the original delivery ducking bouncer for instance and hence leaves his her ground that would not earn him her protection under this law . as already under law 30 striker who has moved forward to play ball missed it is not attempting run and is running or diving to get back into his her ground is protected from being out stumped if he she loses contact with the ground having already made good his her ground. note that the striker is protected under law 30.1.2 only if he she is diving or running towards the wicket at that end the back foot stretching back into the ground and then being raised is not sufficient. if the delivery is no ball then even if the striker is out of his her ground when the wicket is put down by the wicket keeper alone providing run is not being attempted then the striker is protected from being stumped or run out. however if the ball does not become dead after this attempt and the batsmen then choose to run decision for run out can still be made. injured striker with runner where an injured batsman with runner is on strike there are special provisions governing run out and stumped. the position can be summarized as follows the injured striker ground is always at the wicket keeper end. it is not uncommon for an injured striker to set off instinctively as if for run. even if he she crosses with the non striker however and reaches the other end run will not be scored. the injured striker will not have made good his her ground from end to end the bowler end cannot be his her new end. consequently even though as frequently happens an injured striker sets off and leaves the crease the question of attempting run cannot arise. he she has handed over to his her runner the right to score runs and cannot do so him herself. if the injured striker is in his her ground and the runner is out of that ground when the wicket is fairly put down at that end the runner will be run out unless one of the in law 38.2.1 avoiding injury or not touched by fielder applies. this result applies whether or not it occurs off fair delivery. runner can only be run out never stumped only the injured striker him herself can be stumped. an injured striker can only be stumped off fair delivery where he she is out of his her ground and his her runner is in his her ground. in the same circumstances off no ball the injured striker will be neither stumped no stumping off no ball nor run out for the same reason as batsman with no runner is not run out in these circumstances . if the injured striker is out of his her ground his her runner is out of his her ground and the wicket is put down by the wicket keeper alone the injured striker is out run out not stumped. this is because if the runner is out of his her ground it can only ever be run out see law 25.6.5 . this result applies whether or not it occurs off fair delivery. field technique in judging stumping the umpire must watch for the wicket being fairly put down and whether or not the striker was at that time in his her ground. as noted under law 29 the wicket keeper may break the wicket just before he she actually has the ball in his her hands or may drop the ball before his her hands reach the stumps. the striker end umpire must be sure the wicket was fairly put down and that bail came off before the striker was grounded behind the popping crease. at times the two actions will be very close making it difficult to be sure which came first. complete concentration is essential. however until the batsmen start to run the umpire does not have to worry about the batsmen crossing nor about short running. instead he she must see that only the wicket keeper was involved in putting down the wicket and judge whether or not the striker was attempting run. most of the four pieces of information will come from the striker end umpire normal action for every delivery the close scrutiny of the creases the stumps and the positions of the wicket keeper striker and nearby fielders. as stated before as soon as he she has seen the ball leave the bowler hand the striker end umpire must switch attention to the creases and stumps at his her own end. he she must be aware on every delivery that there may be an attempted stumping. even if the wicket keeper is standing back he she may kick or throw the ball at the stumps. if the wicket keeper is standing close the umpire must watch to see that he she does not come in front of the wicket too soon snatching the ball too early in the hopes of stumping and be ready to call and signal no ball if he she does for more on this see law 27.3 . remember that even small portion of the gloves being in line with the wicket means that the wicket keeper is not wholly behind the stumps and no ball should be called. another of the striker end umpire duties watching for too many fielders behind the popping crease on the leg side at the instant of delivery will also contribute since contravention will mean call of no ball and the removal of stumping chance. law 40 timed out 40.1 out timed out 40.1.1 after the fall of wicket or the retirement of batsman the incoming batsman must. unless time has been called be in position to take guard or for the other batsman to be ready to receive the ne ball withinminutes of the dismissal or retirement. if this requirement is not met the incoming batsman will be out timed out. 40.1.2 in the event of an delay in which no batsman comes to the wicket the umpires shall adopt the procedure of law 16.3 umpires awarding match . for the purposes of that law the start of the action shall be taken as the of theminutes referred to above. 40.2 bowler does not get credit the bowler does not get credit for the wicket. this law is designed to minimise the time taken for new batsman to come in when wicket has fallen. the first paragraph specifies the state of readiness he she must achieve withinminutes. this time should be ample. if batsman does not meet the deadline he she is out and could be dismissed on appeal. action by umpires for batsman to be dismissed there must be an appeal. the umpires cannot properly answer the appeal unless they know how long the arrival process had taken. both should always note the time at which any wicket falls in case the ne batsman is late in arriving. if there is an appeal the umpires should check times with each other to be sure whether theminute limit has been breached or not. the bowler end umpire will give the decision accordingly. if that decision is out this is the fall of the ne wicket starting newminute span the time must again be noted. in the case of protracted delay described below batsman cannot be given out until his her innings has begun. the umpire must therefore ensure that the ne batsman is on the field of play when giving the decision out. the umpire must wait if necessary until the batsman steps on to the field of play. protracted delay awarding the match if no batsman appears at all umpires must not allow play to be held up indefinitely. they should consider the possibility that the batting side may be refusing to play. as in law 16.3 they must investigate the cause of the delay. the ball will have become dead at the fall of the wicket and the umpires will have taken possession of the ball. now before leaving the field and going to the pavilion time must be called as the prolonged delay is to be considered as an interruption. this interruption for the purposes of any possible calculations of time lost is however to be taken as starting at the of theminutes. if no appeal is made prior to the call of time it cannot be made after. although batsman is out under the laws he she cannot be dismissed. the umpires sole concern will now be whether there has been refusal to play or not. the procedure for this has been discussed in law 16. the steps are set out below as reminder. 1. discover the cause of delay if the action is considered refusal to play warn the captain if action persists award match to fielding side otherwise play continues. if the action is not considered refusal set time for play to resume jointly calculate time lost from of theminutes until resumption close of play on that day to be put back by this length of time if applicable no overs shall be deducted during the last hour on account of this time. 2. consider the appeal if no appeal has been made and the action is not refusal return to the field of play call play. if an appeal has already been made it must be answered. in addition to possible refusal to play addressed above batsman is out and will therefore be dismissed whether play continues or not. the umpires will so inform the captain of the batting side. the captain of the batting side will decide which batsman is out. there may have been batting order provided before the start of play but this is not relevant it is for the batting side to decide who is the ne batsman who is thus given out. in all cases all this information must also be reported to the scorers law 41 unfair play 41.1 fair and unfair play responsibility of captains the captains are responsible for ensuring that play is conducted within the spirit of cricket as described in the preamble the spirit of cricket as well as within the laws. 41.2 unfair actions 41.2.1 the umpires shall be the sole judges of fair and unfair play. if an umpire considers that any action by player not covered in the laws is unfair he she shall call and signal dead ball if appropriate as soon as it becomes clear that the call will not disadvantage the non offending side and report the matter to the other umpire. 41.2.1.1 if this is first offence by that side the bowler end umpire shall then summon the offending player captain and issue first and final warning which shall apply to all members of the team for the remainder of the match. warn the offending player captain that any further such offence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 41.2.1.2 if this is second or subsequent offence by that side the bowler end umpire shall then summon the offending player captain and inform him her that there has been further such offence. awardpenalty runs to the opposing side. 41.2.1.3 the umpires together shall report the incident as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.3 the match ball changing its condition 41.3.1 the umpires shall make frequent and irregular inspections of the ball. in addition they shall immediately inspect the ball if they suspect anyone of attempting to change the condition of the ball as permitted in 41.3.2. 41.3.2 it is an offence for any player to take any action which changes the condition of the ball in carrying out his her normal duties batsman is not allowed to wilfully damage the ball. see also law 5.5 damage to the ball . fielder may however 41.3.2.1 polish the ball on his her clothing provided that no artificial substance is used and that such polishing wastes no time. 41.3.2.2 remove mud from the ball under the supervision of an umpire. 41.3.2.3 dry wet ball on piece of cloth that has been approved by the umpires. 41.3.3 the umpires shall consider the condition of the ball to have been unfairly changed if any action by any player does not comply with the conditions in 41.3.2. 41.3.4 if the umpires consider that the condition of the ball has been unfairly changed by member or members of either side they shall ask the captain of the opposing side if he she would like the ball to be replaced. if necessary in the case of the batting side the batsmen at the wicket may deputise for their captain. 41.3.4.1 if replacement ball is requested the umpires shall select and bring into use immediately ball which shall have wear comparable to that of the previous ball immediately prior to the contravention. 41.3.4.2 regardless of whether replacement ball has been chosen to be used the bowler end umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing side. if appropriate inform the batsmen at the wicket and the captain of the fielding side that the ball has been changed and the reason for their action. inform the captain of the batting side as soon as practicable of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.3.5 if the umpires agree that in the match there has been any further instance by that team of unfairly changing the condition of the ball they shall 41.3.5.1 repeat the procedure in 41.3.4.1 and 413.4.2. if the further offence is committed by the fielding side additionally the bowler end umpire shall direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend immediately from bowling the bowler who delivered the preceding ball he she shall not be allowed to bowl again in the match. inform the batsmen at the wicket and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for the action. if necessary the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker 41.4.1 it is unfair for any fielder deliberately to attempt to distract the striker while he she is preparing to receive or receiving delivery 41.4.2 if either umpire considers that any action by fielder is such an attempt he she shall immediately call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. the bowler end umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side inform the captain of the fielding side the batsmen and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for the action. neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery and the ball shall not count as one of the over together with the other umpire report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman 41.5.1 in addition to 41.4. it is unfair for any fielder wilfully to attempt by word or action to distract deceive or obstruct either batsman after the striker has received the ball. 41.5.2 it is for either one of the umpires to decide whether any distraction deception or obstruction is wilful or not. 41.5.3 if either umpire considers that fielder has caused or attempted to cause such distraction deception or obstruction he she shall immediately call and signal dead ball and inform the other umpire of the reason for the call. 41.5.4 neither batsman shall be dismissed from that delivery. 41.5.5 if an obstruction involves physical contact the umpires together shall decide whether or not an offence under law 42 players conduct has been committed. 41.5.5.1 if an offence under law 42 players conduct has been committed they shall apply the relevant procedures in law 42 and shall also apply each of 41.5.7 to 41.5.9. 41.5.5.2 if they consider that there has been no offence under law 42 players conduct they shall apply each of 41.5.6 to 41.5.10. 41.5.6 the bowler end umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the batting side. inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action and as soon as practicable inform the captain of the batting side. 41.5.7 the ball shall not count as one of the over. 41.5.8 any runs completed by the batsmen before the offence shall be scored together with any runs for penalties awarded to either side. additionally the run in progress shall be scored whether or not the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the offence. 41.5.9 the batsmen at the wicket shall decide which of them is to face the ne delivery. 41.5.10 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.6 bowling of dangerous and unfair short pitched deliveries 41.6.1 the bowling of short pitched deliveries is dangerous if the bowler end umpire considers that taking into consideration the skill of the striker by their speed length height and direction they are likely to inflict physical injury on him her. the fact that the striker is wearing protective equipment shall be disregarded. 41.6.2 the bowler end umpire may consider that the bowling of short pitched deliveries although not dangerous under 416.1 is unfair if they repeatedly pass above head height of the striker standing upright at the crease. see also law 21.10 ball bouncing over head height of striker 41.6.3 as soon as the umpire decides that the bowling of short pitched deliveries has become dangerous under 41.61 or unfair under 41.6.2 he she shall call and signal no ball. when the ball is dead the umpire shall caution the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning and inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side and the batsmen of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. 41.6.4 should there be any further such delivery by the same bowler in that innings the umpire shall call and signal no ball when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire of the reason for this action the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the umpire shall report the occurrence to the batsmen and as soon as practicable to the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.6.5 the warning sequence in 41.6.3 and 41.6.4 is independent of the warning and action sequence in 41.7. 41.7 bowling of dangerous and unfair non pitching deliveries 41.7.1 any delivery which passes or would have passed without pitching above waist height of the striker standing upright at the popping crease is unfair. whenever such delivery is bowled the umpire shall call and signal no ball. 41.7.2 the bowling of delivery as defined in 41.7.1 is also dangerous if the bowler end umpire considers that there is risk of injury to the striker in making that judgment the umpire shall disregard any protective equipment worn by the striker be mindful of the speed height and direction of the delivery the skill of the striker the repeated nature of such deliveries. 41.7.3 if the umpire considers non pitching delivery or series of non pitching deliveries to be dangerous under 41.7.2 when the ball is dead the umpire shall repeat the no ball signal to the scorers and then caution the bowler indicating that this is first and final warning the umpire shall also inform the other umpire the captain of the fielding side and the batsmen of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. 41.7.4 should there be any further dangerous such delivery by the same bowler in that innings the umpire shall call and signal no ball when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. additionally the umpire shall report the occurrence to the batsmen and as soon as practicable to the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.7.5 the warning and action sequences in 41.7.3 and 41.74 are independent of those in 41.6. 41.7.6 if the umpire considers that bowler deliberately bowled non pitching delivery deemed to be unfair as defined in 41.7.1 then the caution and warning in 41.7.3 shall be dispensed with. the umpire shall immediately call and signal no ball when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling and inform the other umpire for the reason for this action. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the net over. additionally the umpire shall report the occurrence to the batsmen and as soon as practicable to the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and appropriate the team. 41.8 bowling of deliberate front foot no ball if the umpire considers that the bowler has delivered deliberate front foot no ball he she shall immediately call and signal no ball. when the ball is dead direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling inform the other umpire of the reason for this action the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. report the occurrence to the batsmen and as soon as practicable to the captain of the batting side. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.9 time wasting by the fielding side 41.9.1 it is unfair for any fielder to waste time. 41.9.2 if either umpire considers that the progress of an over is unnecessarily slow or time is being wasted in any other way by the captain of the fielding side or by any other fielder at the first instance the umpire concerned shall if the ball is in play call and signal dead ball inform the other umpire of what has occurred. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the captain of the fielding side indicating that this is first and final warning. inform the batsmen of what has occurred. 41.9.3 if either umpire considers that there is any further waste of time in that innings by any fielder the umpire concerned shall 41.9.4 if the ball is in play call and signal dead ball. 41.9.5 inform the other umpire of what has occurred. the bowler end umpire shall then either if the waste of time is not during an over awardpenalty runs to the batting side and inform the captain of the fielding side of the reason for this action or if the waste of time is during the course of an over direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. additionally the umpire shall inform the batsmen and as soon as is practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.10 batsman wasting time 41.10.1 it is unfair for batsman to waste time. in normal circumstances the striker should always be ready to take strike when the bowler is ready to start his her run up. 41.10.2 should either batsman waste time by failing to meet this requirement or in any other way the following procedure shall be adopted. at the first instance either before the bowler starts his her run up or when the ball becomes dead as appropriate the umpire shall warn both batsmen and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform each incoming batsman. inform the other umpire of what has occurred. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.10.3 if there is any further time wasting by any batsman in that innings the umpire shall at the appropriate time while the ball is dead awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. inform the other batsman the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.11 the protected area the protected area is defined as that area of the pitch contained within rectangle bounded at each end by imaginary lines parallel to the popping creases andft 1.52 in front of each and on the sides by imaginary lines one each side of the imaginary line joining the centres of the two middle stumps each parallel to it andft 30.48 cm from it. 41.12 fielder damaging the pitch 41.12.1 it is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch fielder will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers that his her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause. 41.12.2 if fielder causes avoidable damage to the pitch other than as in 41131 at the first instance the umpire seeing the contravention shall. when the ball is dead inform the other umpire. the bowler end umpire shall then caution the captain of the fielding side and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. inform the batsmen of what has occurred. 41.12.3 if in that innings there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the pitch by any fielder the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire. the bowler end umpire shall then signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable awardpenalty runs to the batting side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable inform the fielding captain of the reason for this action. inform the batsmen and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.13 bowler running on protected area 41.13.1 it is unfair for bowler to enter the protected area in his her follow through without reasonable cause whether or not the ball is delivered. 41.13.2 if bowler contravenes this law at the first instance and when the ball is dead the umpire shall caution the bowler and inform the other umpire of what has occurred. this caution shall apply to that bowler throughout the innings. inform the captain of the fielding side and the batsmen of what has occurred. 41.13.3 if in that innings the same bowler again contravenes this law the umpire shall repeat the above procedure indicating that this is final warning. this warning shall also apply throughout the innings. 41.13.4 if in that innings the same bowler contravenes this law third time when the ball is dead the umpire shall direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. if applicable the over shall be completed by another bowler who shall neither have bowled any part of the previous over. nor be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. the bowler thus suspended shall not be allowed to bowl again in that innings. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. inform the batsmen and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.14 batsman damaging the pitch 41.14.1 it is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. if the striker enters the protected area in playing or playing at the ball he she must move from it immediately thereafter. batsman will be deemed to be causing avoidable damage if either umpire considers that his her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause. 41.14.2 if either batsman causes deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch other than as in 4115 at the first instance the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then warn both batsmen that the practice is unfair and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform each incoming batsman. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.14.3 if there is any further instance of avoidable damage to the pitch by any batsman in that innings the umpire seeing the contravention shall when the ball is dead. inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.15 striker in protected area 41.15.1 the striker shall not adopt stance in the protected area or so close to it that frequent encroachment is inevitable. the striker may mark guard on the pitch provided that no mark is unreasonably close to the protected area. 41.15.2 if there is breach of any of the conditions in 4115.1 by the striker the umpire seeing the contravention shall if the bowler has not entered his her delivery stride immediately call and signal dead ball otherwise he she shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then warn the striker that the practice is unfair and indicate that this is first and final warning. this warning shall apply throughout the innings. the umpire shall so inform the non striker and each incoming batsman. inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of what has occurred. 41.15.3 if there is any further breach of any of the conditions in 41.15.1 by any batsman in that innings the umpire seeing the contravention shall if the bowler has not entered his her delivery stride immediately call and signal dead ball otherwise he she shall wait until the ball is dead and then inform the other umpire of the occurrence. the bowler end umpire shall then disallow all runs to the batting side return any not out batsman to his her original end signal no ball or wide to the scorers if applicable. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . inform the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.16 non striker leaving his her ground early 41.16.1 if the non striker is out of his her ground at any time from the moment the bail comes into play until the instant when the bowler would normally have been to release the ball the non striker is liable to be run out. in these circumstances the non striker will be out run out if he she is out of his her ground when his her wicket is put down by the bowler throwing the ball at the stumps or by the bowler hand holding the ball whether or not the ball is subsequently delivered. 41.16.2 if the ball is not delivered and there is an appeal the umpire shall make his her decision on the run out. if it is not out he she shall call and signal dead ball as soon as possible. the ball shall not count as one in the over. 41.16.3 if the ball is delivered and there is an appeal the umpire shall make his her decision on the run out. if the non striker is not dismissed the ball remains in play and law 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering ball shall apply. if the non striker is dismissed the ball shall not count as one in the over. 41.17 batsmen stealing run 41.17.1 it is unfair for the batsmen to attempt to steal run during the bowler run up. unless the bowler attempts to run out either batsman see 41.16 and law 214 bowler throwing towards striker end before delivery the umpire shall call and signal dead ball as soon as the batsmen cross in such an attempt. inform the other umpire of the reason for this action. the bowler end umpire shall then return the batsmen to their original ends. awardpenalty runs to the fielding side. award any otherrun penalty that is applicable for penalty runs under law 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side . inform the batsmen the captain of the fielding side and as soon as practicable the captain of the batting side of the reason for this action. the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 41.18 penalty runs 41.18.1 when penalty runs are awarded to either side when the ball is dead the umpire shall signal the penalty runs to the scorers. see law 2.13 signals . 41.18.2 penalty runs shall be awarded in each case where the laws require the award even it result has already been achieved. see law 16.6 winning hit or note however that the restrictions on awarding penalty runs in laws 23leg byes not to be awarded 25.7 restriction on the striker runner 28.3 protective helmets belonging to the fielding side and 34.4 runs permitted from ball lawfully struck more than once will apply. 41.18.3 whenpenalty runs are awarded to the batting side they shall be scored as penalty and shall be in addition to any other penalties. they are awarded when the ball is dead and shall not be regarded as runs scored from either the immediately preceding delivery or the immediately following delivery and shall be in addition to any runs from those deliveries. the batsmen shall not change ends solely by reason of therun penalty. 41.18.4 whenpenalty runs are awarded to the fielding side they shall be added as penalty to that side total of runs in its most recently completed innings if the fielding side has not completed an innings thepenalty runs shall be added to the score in its ne innings. introduction law 41 is wide ranging set of clauses covering all manner of unfair play in many ways it is actually about half dozen different laws brought together in one place. laws 41.1 and 41.2 make clear the responsibility of the captains and the umpires. in particular law 41.2 instructs the umpires to intervene if they consider any action not covered by the laws is unfair. there are several other instances of unfairness specifically covered elsewhere in the laws. for the batsmen attempting leg byes when the striker has not attempted to play the ball or avoid being hit by it is acting unfairly as is the wicket keeper moving significantly during the bowler run up unless the batsman has changed his her stance . these however are dealt with by on the spot penalties there are just five cases in lawsto 40 in which more severe sanctions including report to the governing body are to be imposed. these are in laws 18.5 deliberate short runs 21.3.3 ball thrown or delivered underarm 244 player returning without permission where the actual offence is touching the ball after coming on 26.4 practice on the field penalties for contravention and 28.2 fielding the ball . law 41 covers 14 other unfair actions and additionally in 41.2 makes provision for those not specifically covered in any law. at first sight these 14 indeed all 18 may seem confusing even overwhelming. however they all conform to the same basic pattern which should enable umpires to understand the detail more easily. there are four further instances of sanctions for unfair play in the laws those are to do with player behaviour and are covered under law 42. those will not be discussed here but will be covered in detail under that law. the procedures for applying penalties in the laws there are some individual variations whether there is an initial warning whetherpenalty runs are to be awarded or the bowler is to be suspended from bowling and so on but the general pattern is always as follows if the first step is to call signal either no ball or dead ball the umpire to do this will be named and will be the one best placed to see the action although in some cases both umpires will be equally qualified to make the call. remember that umpire always means the bowler end umpire. whichever umpire makes the call will inform the other umpire. the appropriate action is then taken by the bowler end umpire. the only are unfairly changing the condition of the ball law 41.3 and any sanction under law 42 where part of the action is to be by both umpires together. in addition to informing the other umpire immediately the following are always to be informed the fielding captain the batsmen at the wicket the batting captain at an appropriate time the umpires together report the incident as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending side and the governing body responsible for the match. the first of these will be the club committee or equivalent the second will be the league or other body that has set up the competition of which the match is part. notice that if the players are so misguided as to repeat the offence after warnings have been given and final action taken that final action will be repeated where appropriate for every further contravention. law 41.18 sets out general points about the signalling awarding and recording of penalty runs. they apply in all cases including the not unfair case of the ball hitting the helmet placed on the ground behind the wicket keeper but see restrictions under law 18.6 . law 41.18 also allows for penalty runs to be awarded when the final ball of the match has become dead the basis on which win by penalty runs law 16.6 and 16.7 can occur. the offence prompting penalty runs must however have occurred on the final delivery. if the umpires walking off when the match is concluded realise that the ball has sustained unfair damage. they cannot then awardpenalty runs retrospectively. if however on the last delivery of an innings batsman one warning having already been issued to that team caused avoidable damage to the pitch it would be acceptable to award thepenalty runs when the ball is dead and disallow the runs scored since that is when such awards are to be made in any case. note also from law 41.18 that although the penalty is an odd number of runs the batsman do not change ends merely on that account. for suppose that the batsmen have nearly completed two runs when the ball is thrown in and hits fielder helmet placed on the ground behind the wicket keeper. the ball becomes dead. the batsmen having crossed on the second run count as having run 2. the penalty makes the scorein total an odd number. nevertheless because of theruns they will be at the same ends as when the ball was delivered and will stay there. umpires must study the procedures to become familiar with the particular points of each one. however mcc has also produced penalty runs card see page 350 splitting the offences between those with warning and those with instant penalties. this card can prove useful and is small enough to be taken onto the field. umpires should aim to know the information on this card thoroughly using it only as an aid to memory. informing players when an incident in breach of law 41 or the other laws mentioned has occurred any of the players who have already been involved by being given warning will not need telling separately but the fielding captain and batsmen are to be told at every occurrence of an offence. this is not true of the batting captain. for an offence by fielder there is no need to inform the captain of the batting side until warnings have and final action is to be taken. the batting captain is to be told at every occurrence only if the offence is by batsman. however play must never be held up in order to inform him her apart from for breaches under law 42 . the captain may of course be one of the batsmen currently at the wicket and can be told immediately. otherwise the umpire must take the first opportunity of break in play to inform the captain. in the case of batsman transgressing there may therefore be gap in time before the captain can be told that warning has been issued to the batting side. when batting offence which applies to the whole team for batsman damaging the pitch has occurred and the batting captain is to be informed the umpire is to also inform each incoming batsman even after the warning has been issued to the captain to ensure that all understand that warning is in force. laws of cricket 2017 code 2nd edition 2019 penalty runs law no warning action 18.5 either batsman deliberately running short no runs to countpenalty runs return batsmen to original ends report 24.4 player returning without permission and coming into contact with the ball in play ball becomes deadpenalty runs ball not to count as one of the over runs completed run in progress if crossed to count report 28.2 fielding the ball illegally ball becomes deadpenalty runs ball not to count as one of the over runs completed in progress if crossed to count report 28.3 ball in play hitting helmet not being worn ball becomes dead if allowablepenalty runs if allowable runs completed in progress if crossed to count no report 41.3 match ball changing its condition unfairly umpires consult change ball if opposing captain wishespenalty runs report any repetition in match by team umpires consult change ball if opposing captain wishespenalty runs if fielding offence suspend bowler who bowled previous ball report 41.4 deliberate attempt to distract striker preparing to receive or receiving delivery no dismissalpenalty runs ball not to count as one of the over report 41.5 deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman after striker received delivery no dismissalpenalty runs runs completed in progress to count batsman at wicket decide which of them to face ne delivery ball not to count as one of the over report 41.17 batsmen stealing runpenalty runs no runs count return batsmen to original ends report 42 level3 oroffence agree level of offence. call time summon and inform captainpenalty runs direct captain to remove offending player if necessary call play report new law or law change in 2017 code report to and any governing body responsible for the match. . .run penalty for no ball or wide always counts law one warning action 26.4 illegal practice on the field warn player inform other umpire and both captains repetition by any player on the same team during the matchpenalty runs report 41.2 unfair actions not covered in law warn the captain repetition by any member of sidepenalty runs report 41.9 time wasting by fielding side warn captain any repetition during that innings . if not during an overpenalty runs report . if during an over suspend bowler report 41.10 batsmen wasting time warn batsmen repetition by any batsmen in that inningspenalty runs report 41.12 fielder causing avoidable damage to pitch warn captain any repetition during that inningspenalty runs report 41.14 batsman causing avoidable damage to pitch warn the batsman repetition by any batsman in that innings no runs to countpenalty runs return batsmen to original ends report 41.15 striker in protected area warn the batsman repetition by any batsman in that innings no runs to countpenalty runs return batsmen to original ends report 42.2 leveloffence agree offence. call time summon and inform captain first and final warning call play report leveloffence following any other offence by that team agree offence. call time summon and inform captainpenalty runs call play report report to and any governing body responsible for the match . warning applies to whole innings to the whole side for the rest of that innings. inform each incoming batsman. warning applies to whole team for rest of match. warnings if batsman contravenes the law it is that batsman who is the one to be warned. if bowler commits bowling offence it is similarly the bowler who is warned. if fielder other than the bowler commits an offence or the bowler commits fielding offence it is the fielding side captain who is to be warned. the only offence for which two warnings are issued is for bowler running on the protected area in the follow through and is thus always the bowler responsibility. the final penalty is suspension of that bowler. umpires must ensure that they know which of the other offences by the fielding side carryrun penalty and which lead to the suspension of the bowler. the offences committed by batsmen that can lead to an initial warning are illegal practice on the field time wasting causing avoidable damage to the pitch and taking guard in or too close to the protected area. repetition can lead to cancellation of runs where appropriate and to the award ofpenalty runs to the fielding side. note that when runs are cancelled . . disallowed there is no award of thepenalty runs if the ball hits the helmet on the ground behind the wicket keeper see law 18.2 . in every case once warning is issued it will remain in force for the remainder of the innings. ball not counting in the over not all offences relate to particular delivery of the ball. for these the question of the validity of delivery does not arise. in some of the others no ball is to be called so the delivery is not valid. for the rest there is general principle based on the logic of the situation. if the fielding side offends after the ball is delivered and while the ball is in play thus possibly restricting the number of runs that the batsmen might have scored then the delivery will not be valid ball. this does not apply to the ball hitting helmet on the ground behind the wicket keeper since this is not direct unfair action by the fielding side. there the general principle enunciated in law 20.6 applies the delivery is valid ball. note however that although fielder causing unnecessary damage to the pitch could possibly be put into this category unless it also distracts or obstructs the batsmen under 41.5 it will not restrict the runs that can be scored from that delivery and the ball will count in the over. for time wasting where particular delivery is not pertinent when it is batsman who has breached the law it would be unfair to reward him her with further chance to score. thus it will be valid ball counting in the over in all cases. the chart summarises the cases for fielders law offence ball valid 24.4 returning without permission no 21.3 throwing bowling underarm no ball called 26.4 illegal practice not applicable 28.2 legal fielding no 41.3 ball tampering not applicable 41.4 distracting striker no 41.5 distraction obstruction or deception of batsman no 41.9 time wasting not applicable 41.12 pitch damage yes. see note above remember it is not returning illegally that is the offence. it is then coming into contact with the ball. details of the offences before looking at these it should be noted that the statement in 41.1 is important. if there is any difficulty with the conduct of the game as will also be seen under all the breaches of law 42 the umpires will act through the captain of the side rather than intervene to rebuke or discipline player directly. the only direct contact with an individual player is warning batsman for an offence or warning bowler for one of the bowler only offences. the offences in law 41 fall under the headings changing the condition of the ball deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman dangerous and or unfair bowling time wasting damaging the pitch unfair running by the batsmen unfair actions not thought to be within the spirit of cricket and not covered elsewhere in the laws changing the condition of the ball wear and tear on the ball is inevitable as it continually strikes the ground is hit by the bat and runs across the outfield. this wear must not be artificially assisted by any of the players. the law makes it very clear what they are allowed to do and what they are not allowed to do it is more often applied to fielders but is equally important for batsmen. this law used to stipulate specific actions that player should not take. it now simply says that any action that is not allowed under 41.3.2 is deemed unfair. umpires must therefore be vigilant of any action taken by either side in respect to the ball. polishing the ball by rubbing on the shirt etc. is time honoured ritual. it must be done without the assistance of any artificial substance and must not waste time. the fielders can dry and polish the ball on their own clothing which can include shirt and trousers etc. but the umpire must watch that no artificial substances including hair cream lip salve suntan lotion or other such substances are used. cleaning and drying the ball in wet or muddy conditions is permitted but the umpire is to watch the cleaning process to ensure that nothing but cleaning is done. removal of mud from the ball by fielder must also be done under the supervision of the umpire whilst the use of sawdust on the ball or rubbing the ball on the ground even wiping it gently on wet grass is not allowed. any cloth provided by the fielders must have been approved by the umpires before being used. the well equipped umpire will always have suitable cloth of his her own available on the field for cleaning and drying the ball. occasionally in wet conditions fielder may think to pick the ball up while it is in play using piece of cloth. this is not permitted though their only intention may be to keep the ball dry this is illegal fielding as covered in law 28.2. there are many actions fielding side may take that an umpire might deem unfair players often come up with new ways to alter the condition of the ball. if these are deliberate the umpires must intervene. good and common of this is throwing the ball in on the bounce particularly on the square or immediately surrounding area which is likely to be more abrasive. fielders are permitted to throw the ball to the wicket keeper so that it bounces first but should not be allowed to deliberately scuff up the ball by persistently and deliberately throwing it in on the bounce. umpires must use their best judgment to determine when bouncing throws are fair and part of the game and when they are an attempt to alter the condition of the ball. the distance of the throw and the ability of the fielders will be relevant. there is also growing practice known as loading the ball which is not permitted. while fielders are permitted to polish the ball using saliva and sweat loading means applying these to one side of the ball and then not polishing it. this is unfair and will change the condition of the ball deliberately making it heavier on one side. it is not always easy for an umpire to know whether fielders are polishing or loading but careful attention should be paid to make sure that the condition of the ball is not being unfairly altered. batsmen are not allowed to wilfully damage the ball perhaps by standing on it but damage which might be done in the course of the ball being played either going out of shape or hitting wall or path is not considered wilful in this conte. the umpires are required to make frequent and irregular inspections. both frequency and irregularity are important so that the players feel that the ball is under constant surveillance. that means umpires should not simply look at the ball at the end of every over but instead make sure to take look during overs throughout both teams innings to ensure fairness and visibility of inspections. further opportunities for inspection are provided by the umpire taking the ball at the fall of each wicket and at each break in play as required by law 4. some tell tale signs to look for are the stitching of the seam still prominent after considerable use disturbance of the corners where the quarters meet the seam one side of the ball much rougher than the other even allowing for the players having polished only one side the bowler appearing suspiciously different holding the ball out of sight in front of him her apparently in both hands and looking down at it as he she walks back to his her mark. the striker end umpire will be the one to see this. the above list is far from . players continue to find new methods to alter the condition of the ball and umpires must be vigilant. if either umpire has any suspicion that the ball is being mistreated he she should immediately inspect the ball together with the other umpire and see what change there has been since the last inspection. if they agree that this is more than is consistent with the use the ball has had in that time they will conclude that the relevant side has made unfair changes and will institute the procedure laid down in the rest of law 41.3. it is particularly worth noting that once the umpires have decided that the ball has been illegally tampered with the penalties will apply but the ball is not necessarily changed. it is up to the captain of the side who did not offend to decide whether the ball should be changed and the law allows the batsmen at the wicket to act for their captain. the accusation of changing the condition of the match ball is particularly emotive one in cricket it is seen as one of the most unsporting acts of cheating. players as noted above are permitted to attempt to keep all or part of the ball in good condition so there is always some grey area. umpires should not be afraid to punish transgressions of this law withpenalty runs and reporting as mandated in 41.3.4.2 and if the offence is repeated with suspension of the bowler as required by 41.3.5. note that such suspension is for the rest of the match not just the innings. these sanctions reflect the severity of the offence so umpires should not rush into punishment. by constantly checking the ball and communicating with the players the umpires can make sure that cheating is punished but that inadvertent degradation of the ball is not. if the ball degrades without any unfair practice the umpires must still change it under law 4.5 but the fielding side are not sanctioned. deliberate distraction deception or obstruction of batsman the regrettable practice of fielders talking or more aggressive utterances the continual last minute movement of fielders and other such distractions could be designed to unsettle the striker. any distraction from within or outside the ground while the striker is preparing to receive or receiving delivery is to bring an instant call and signal of dead ball as set out in law 20.4.2. if the umpire considers that this distraction is result of behaviour by fielder that is deliberate attempt to distract the striker 41.4.2 sets out the procedure that must be followed. remember because this is deliberate attempt to distract there are no warnings for the fielding side. there may be attempts at distraction deception or obstruction of either batsman after the striker has received the ball. as discussed under law 37 the umpire must decide whether or not physical collision between batsman and fielder is accidental. if the umpire considers with his her colleague if necessary that it was wilful it is not usually difficult to identify the perpetrator. if an attempt at obstruction or distraction is not physical but perhaps by sudden shout it is more obvious that it was wilful and it will usually be clear who was responsible. if it is deception it can be difficult to be certain this section of the law was new in 2017 and both players and umpires have had to adjust to it. the practice known as mock fielding is one way but not the only one that fielder might try to deceive batsman. if fielder slides along the ground after the ball has passed them and pretends to have the ball in their hand to prevent the batsmen running when really they have missed it that is deception and is punished under this law. if however fielder running after the ball slides to the floor to allow team mate to pick the ball up and throw it in over their head that is acceptable. it will not always be easy for umpires to know which is which but the act of pretending to throw the ball after slide and without the ball in hand will be an indication and umpires only need to believe that an attempt to deceive the batsman has taken place to apply the law. further some wicket keepers have taken to pretending the ball is closer to them than it is in order to convince the batsman to dive to make their ground when in fact the throw is to the other end or the ball is some distance away. this too is deception even though it is not likely to prevent batsman scoring an run it could lead to an unnecessary dive that causes injury. the wicket keeper pretending to have taken the ball which the striker has missed and stopping the batsmen from running when it is in fact half way to the boundary is similarly deception and perhaps clearer to identify. however if it is unclear for an umpire to see the umpires should consult and decide if the action appeared wilful and was an attempt to deceive. for deliberate attempt by fielder to deceive obstruct or distract batsman after the striker has completed receiving the ball the penalties set out in 41.5 are six fold neither batsman can be dismissed. this law is unique in that the run in progress will count even if the batsmen have not crossed. the delivery is not valid ball so the batting side get further chance to score runs. five penalty runs are awarded against the fielding side. the two batsmen also choose which of them will face the ne delivery this is something the umpire should check that they know. there will be report after the match. since the umpire is to call and signal dead ball as soon as the attempt is made it is not necessary to gauge how successful the attempt might have been. it is making the attempt that breaches the law. dangerous and unfair bowling there are three types of delivery considered under this law the fast short pitched ball that rises sharply off the pitch law 41.6 the ball that without pitching reaches the striker at dangerous height above the waist law 41.7 deliberate front foot no ball law 41.8 . they are collected here together under the one heading of dangerous and unfair bowling. the first two of these are firmly established in cricket jargon as bouncer and beamer respectively. these terms are not used in the law but are useful descriptions. in addition included here is the short pitched ball or any delivery that pitches and bounces so that it passes or would have passed over the head of the striker standing upright at the popping crease. since 2017 such deliveries have not been considered immediately dangerous but are unfair and are always called no ball under law 21.10. however when bowled too often such deliveries can be considered and sanctioned as dangerous under 41.6. see below for further guidance. it must be emphasised that playing conditions in some high level matches allowing certain number of bouncers in an over do not apply under law but only in those particular matches. 1. bouncers dangerous short pitching deliveries the umpire does not have to read the bowler intention what an umpire has to decide is the likelihood that the delivery could inflict injury on the striker ignoring the effect of protective equipment. delivery at the striker head is not to be considered harmless because the striker is wearing helmet. the umpire must decide that is dangerous delivery not how well protected the striker is . in making his her assessment the umpire must take into account length was it short pitched this fact can easily be observed. height did it pass the striker knee high waist high head high the dangerous levels apply only to the striker standing upright at the crease. the striker may not be in this position. the umpire will have to judge from the flight of the ball what the situation would have been had the striker been so positioned. if the ball would have hit the striker upright at the crease at upper rib level at neck shoulder level or on the head it is high in this conte. direction was it travelling towards the striker body this is also an observable fact ball at head height but well wide of off stump is not dangerous. the skill of the striker really skilled batsman can score freely off such balls and will enjoy doing so. capable but less skilful batsman will be able to avoid injury but be unable to score off them. increasing frustration may eventually put that competent player at risk. an ine batsman will be in real danger the umpire will have to categorise the batsmen whom he she may not have seen before by the way they react. batsman position in the batting order does not necessarily reflect their competence. that is for the umpire to decide. note that the law changed in 2017 so that repetition is not necessary requirement for bouncer to be dangerous. one dangerous ball to tail ender is enough to be called no ball and warned. however although competent batsman will probably be able to deal with some bouncers receiving them continually is likely to unsettle even very good player and wear down the striker resistance through frustration. as outlined above there is special point about the bouncer which passes over the striker head. clearly it is not likely to injure batsman because it cannot hit him her. nevertheless the law recognises it as part of the attack upon player self confidence and as contributing to the increasing frustration at not being able to score. although such ball could in some ways and under some playing conditions be considered wide since it is out of the reach with normal cricket shot under the laws it is to be called no ball. no ball call gives the striker protection from dismissal from this unfair delivery. moreover if the striker touches it even inadvertently in trying to avoid it wide would be annulled cancelling the one run penalty and replacement delivery and allowing the batsman potentially to be out caught. each such delivery in addition to being no ball will be taken into consideration alongside bouncers towards the body when deciding if they should be sanctioned as follows. when the umpire comes to the point that bouncers to particular batsman are dangerous for any of the above reasons he she will start and follow through the procedure in law 41.6.3. the umpire should probably reach that point after the first bouncer bowled at the body of batsman who is so ine perhaps young player that it is immediately obvious the striker is unable to cope with it and is therefore in danger from the start. for the really skilful striker scoring feely from such deliveries the bowler may soon realise that bowling bouncers is counter productive and will stop doing so of his her own accord. however there may still come time when the umpire feels this bowling has become unfair even for an batsman. between these two for an ordinarily competent or fairly ine batsman the umpire must judge when the bowling is beginning to become dangerous to the striker. notice that the sequence is for particular bowler against the same batsman. that means the umpires must keep track of that particular bowler batsman pair if the bowler changes ends. bowler who does so will carry his her record of bouncers to that batsman dangerous or over head height to the new end. however if the umpire feels that bouncers being bowled to batsman are unfair because of his her lack of skill or have become unfair due to that batsman being worn down by persistent short bowling then this will apply even to new bowler. this might be an over head height bouncer if they have become unreasonable. if delivery is dangerous to batsman it is dangerous whoever is bowling. similar delivery from new bowler will still result in an immediate warning. once the warning procedure has started that bowler will be suspended if he she bowls further delivery to any batsman that the umpire considers is dangerous or unfair. reporting of the suspended bowler together with the captain will of course follow. 2. beamers high non pitching deliveries every beamer is to be considered unfair non pitching deliveries above waist height are no balls and 41.7.1 requires that they should always be called as such. assuming non pitching delivery is accidental the umpire has two matters to take into consideration first the umpire must consider the height at which the ball would have passed the striker standing upright at the crease. secondly the umpire must decide if the delivery is dangerous. the ball may be difficult to judge for height if it is dropping as it reaches the striker. if the striker tries to play it well in front of the body or has perhaps stepped down the pitch it will be difficult to know how far it would have dropped by the time it reached the popping crease. an enquiring look from the bowler end umpire to his her colleague answered by pre agreed signal from the striker end umpire can be helpful. however it should be noted that it is still for the bowler end umpire to make the decision. if the decision is taken that the delivery was above waist height then it is beamer and unfair. the umpire will immediately call and signal no ball whatever else he she decides. then the umpire must make the second decision on whether the delivery is dangerous. this is not as straightforward as simply judging the pace and direction of the ball. of course faster deliveries are more likely to be dangerous but there are many other considerations not least the conte of the delivery. for against fast bowler the batsman anticipating quick short pitched deliveries might have his her attention fi on the pitch. an attempted slower ball that loops out of the bowler hand and hits the batsman on the head might be dangerous despite being slow because it is so une that the batsman does not pick it up out of the hand. that same looping delivery bowled by spinner who is constantly flighting the ball comes without the element of surprise and might not be dangerous. similarly deliveries directed at the batsman are more likely to be dangerous than those which are wide of him her but this is not hard and fast rule in determining danger. an umpire may very well consider that fast bowler who bowls one ball fast high and well wide of the batsman on the off side followed by one that is fast high and well wide of the batsman on the leg side is becoming dangerous. the third such ball may be straight and could be seriously dangerous to the batsman and the bowler is clearly out of control. the second such ball might therefore be considered dangerous in the eyes of the umpire even if the first in isolation was not. another factor to be considered is repetition. as with short pitched bowling even very skilful player might be worn down by barrage of beamers. batsman who is constantly swatting such deliveries for six should not be disadvantaged with the removal of the wayward bowler but once it is clear that due to their repetition the deliveries have become dangerous the umpire should begin the warning process. when deciding if delivery is dangerous the umpire must also consider the skill of the striker. less skilful batsman may not be able to cope with the same deliveries as well as better batsman. the first time that the umpire identifies any delivery as dangerous the warning procedure in 41.7.3 must be followed. unlike for bouncers once bowler has been warned for beamer the process continues against any batsman. if that bowler bowls second beamer at any batsman that is enough for them to be suspended from bowling for the rest of the innings under 41.7.4. however the judgment of bouncers or beamers by any individual bowler and the associated warning and action procedures are separate. finally if the umpire considers that beamer was not an accident but deliberately bowled there is no warning. the captain must immediately remove the bowler from the attack for the rest of the innings at the direction of the umpire. this is very serious offence and the umpires must decide if the bowling of such delivery is deliberate act. conte should also be helpful in determining that the delivery was deliberate. such offences are thankfully very rare and unlikely to happen without some indication of trouble beforehand. if the umpires realise there is bad feeling in the match they should both watch and listen carefully for any signs of trouble and involve the captain of the relevant teams to prevent escalation to this level if at all possible. law 42 may well assist in this as will be covered later reporting of bowler and the captain for any suspension will of course follow. deliberate front foot no ball new section has been added to the area of this law covering dangerous bowling. whereas an accidental front foot no ball is penalised under law 21 if bowler deliberately over steps that is deliberately bowls at batsman from closer than the popping crease then it is likely to be dangerous. this is sometimes known as running through the crease and is often borne out of frustration and as an attempt to unsettle the striker. there is no set distance to define this the umpire must use his her judgment based on the conte of preceding events to decide if the over stepping was done deliberately. the bowler is penalised not only with no ball but this is considered serious offence and the bowler is also immediately suspended from the attack in the same way as for deliberate beamer. suspending bowler there are several occasions in the laws most notably under dangerous and unfair bowling where bowler needs to be suspended either for the rest of the innings or in the case of 41.3 for the rest of the match. there is set procedure for any such suspensions which umpires must be careful to follow call and signal no ball if required when the ball is dead the umpire will direct the captain of the fielding side to suspend the bowler immediately from bowling. note the umpires themselves never suspend bowler that bowler shall not be allowed to bowl again either in the innings or the rest of the match depending on the offence the umpire then informs the other umpire of the reason for the suspension the umpire then informs the batsmen at the crease as soon as practical the umpire informs the batting captain if necessary the over will be completed by another bowler who had not bowled any part of the previous over nor will be allowed to bowl any part of the ne over. time wasting in recent times the rate of play has generally become slower with over rates falling noticeably so it is important for the umpires to remind captains of their responsibilities to keep play moving. some general guidance on this has been covered in partof this book particularly regarding discussions at the pre match meeting with the captains. however there will be times when umpires need more than just quiet word to keep the game moving because players are wasting time deliberately. these are addressed in 41.9. 1. by fielders this is usually team activity rather than one individual. it is difficult to detect because the contributory factors such as conference between captain and bowler fine adjustments of the field the ball being returned to the bowler in number of steps rather than in one big throw and so on are all legitimate. the umpire has to judge when they are being taken too far. it does not matter whether the slowness is deliberate ploy to slow down play in the hope of influencing the outcome of the game or not. what matters is whether the particular activity is necessary and if so whether the time spent on it is more than is reasonable. there are certain obvious points. bowler with long run up who waits until the ball is returned to him before starting the walk back to his her mark is wasting time another fielder could be gathering the ball while the bowler is walking back. captain who arranges that the same fielder is at deep fine leg at both ends is likely to be wasting time sometimes especially in t20 cricket captain may wish to position specific fielder in specific position within reason that is fair as long as the fielder runs between the positions at the end of each over . on the other hand if right handed and left handed batsman are in at the same time running lot of singles so that the sight screen has to be moved virtually every ball then slow progress is inevitable. this is something the umpires can discuss with the captains before the match so that someone is stationed by the screen so that moving it can be done with minimum delay. the umpire has to judge the situation and whilst either umpire can intervene if it is felt the timewasting has reached point of sanction it would be wise to obtain the agreement of his her colleague before embarking on the punitive measures for time wasting laid down in 41.9. notice the specific instance of time wasting while practising on the field. see law 26 . the umpires must be clear when the timewasting takes place as following an initial but final warning the law differentiates between further timewasting not during an over whenpenalty runs are awarded and during an over when the more serious sanction of the suspension of the bowler takes place even if it was not the bowler who was wasting time . in both situations reporting is required and so the umpires will need to have clear notes on the events that led to these sanctions. 2. by batsmen an over riding principle is that batsman should within reason be ready to face the ball by the time the bowler is ready to begin his her run up. whilst no batsman should be permitted to significantly delay the game by not being ready at this point under normal circumstances the batsman is entitled to check his her guard and look around to see where the fielders are. batsmen may need to re tie their shoelaces which will involve the removal and then replacement of gloves. it is reasonable for the striker to prod down small divot on the pitch. if the field is being re set or the ball retrieved from beyond the boundary short mid pitch not actually on the pitch discussion with the other batsman about strategy may be valid. the bringing on to the field of replacement gloves change of bat or cap for helmet may well be reasonable but the umpire has to judge when all these things are tactics to waste time. check that the other umpire takes similar view is wise. since many of the activities by which batsman can waste time will happen before the ball comes into play 41.10.2 makes provision for the umpire to award thepenalty runs before the delivery if that is appropriate the ball must of course be dead. field technique note that the umpires will obviously never want to waste time however they must be vigilant not to delay the game unintentionally. this is crucial not only because to do so would be unfair but also because if umpires are seen to be acting slowly it will reduce their credibility should they wish to enforce the laws of timewasting later in the game. if an umpire does not need to switch sides when left and right handers are taking singles in order to apply the law then he she should not do so particularly if the bowler is spinner trying to move the game along quickly . that is not to say that it will never be necessary to change sides it may well be as covered in positioning under partbut wherever possible it should not be the umpires delaying play. damage to the pitch it is unfair to cause deliberate or avoidable damage to the pitch. player will be treated as causing avoidable damage if his her presence on the pitch is without reasonable cause. it is not always realised that merely walking gently and calmly on the pitch and not only the protected area but the whole pitch will cause damage. of course in that case it will be slight but such slight damage will build up over time. the umpires are therefore to consider that player is causing avoidable damage simply if he she is on the pitch unnecessarily. the umpires do not have to wait for damage to be visible. avoidable and unnecessary are important words. of course fielders have to be on the pitch if that is where the ball has to be fielded. the striker will actually stand on the pitch when waiting to receive delivery and will certainly move on it in playing the ball. if he she then runs it is impossible to immediately get off the pitch from the point at which the ball was played. all this is unavoidable damage. what is not allowed is fielders and batsmen being on the pitch without reasonable cause. there are three cases of damage to the pitch under this law. 1. bowler running on to the protected area law 41.11 defines the protected area. law 41.13 specifies that the bowler is not to run on this in following through whether the ball has been delivered or not. the offence here is not in itself damaging the pitch although that will be consequence it is running on the protected area in the follow through. it should be noted that the bowler is not prevented from entering the protected area to field the ball. it is only unnecessary running on the protected area that is prohibited. the umpire however must not divert attention away from the flight of the ball to watch the bowler follow through. he she will become aware of the bowler position if it is not far enough out since it will then be close to the umpire own line of vision watching the ball. the bowler may actually get in the way of that line of vision. indeed some slow bowlers may finish their follow through short of the protected area and thus take up position right in front of the umpire. this is not illegal but it will make it difficult for an umpire to make certain decisions if their view is impeded and is thus potentially harmful to the bowler. it will help with this judgment if the umpire is standing back from the stumps at distance that means the line of sight over the top of the stumps intersects the pitch at the start of the protected area. this will not always be possible depending on the line the bowler is taking but where it is it makes it far easier to judge if the bowler is encroaching into the protected area. this is bowler only offence and there is an warning. the first is caution the second final warning these are issued to the bowler in person rather than the fielding captain although he she along with the other umpire are informed of the offence. third transgression results not in penalty runs but suspension from bowling for the rest of the innings with the associated reporting of bowler and captain. 2. by fielders here it is not merely the protected area but the whole pitch that the fielders including the wicket keeper must not damage beyond what is unavoidable for necessary fielding action law 41.12 sets out the details. an umpire it can be either umpire who sees the action will have to considerable judgment in deciding whether fierce turning on the heel is done in genuine attempt to field difficult ball or has been unnecessarily in the hope of scarring the pitch. there is mistaken belief by some players that if they have to cross from one side to the other at the change of over they will avoid damaging the pitch by jumping over it. alas this is not so. if fielder is near one end then they should walk round behind the stumps. it is always better for fielders to walk around the pitch rather than across it however if this is going to waste time during an over it is certainly better to walk gently across than trying to jump. there the fielder would do more damage by landing from jump since it will inevitably be short of the 10 feet needed to clear the pitch. crossing in these circumstances could be described as reasonable cause . remember that the bowler is also fielder and will also come under the provisions of this section of law. bowler could also be guilty as fielder of damaging the pitch. certainly after the follow through but also during it if either umpire considers he she is deliberately his her foot movements. it would be wise in this case for the umpire to check that his her colleague shared the same opinion. if the umpire considers member of the fielding side has breached this law then they should caution the captain and as this is team offence if there is any further breach by any member of that side then when the ball is dead the procedure and sanctions in 41.12.3 should be applied. 3. by batsmen as above the striker cannot avoid standing and moving on the part of the pitch in the vicinity of his crease. he she must however get off the pitch as quickly as possible if attempting run and if the striker does enter the protected area in playing shot must leave it as soon as the shot is complete. the introduction of law 41.15 specifically prohibiting striker from taking guard within the protected area or so close that encroachment is inevitable in playing at the ball should limit the occasions when batsmen transgress. neither 41.14 nor 41.15 prevent the striker from stepping down the pitch and going into the protected area to play particular ball. it is for either umpire to intervene if the striker takes up position close tofeet in front of the popping crease where the protected area starts but it is likely that the striker end umpire will be better sighted to judge. if the striker is in an illegal position during the bowler run up dead ball should be called before the bowler enters the delivery stride. if the striker moves into such position after the delivery stride has been entered the umpire will have to decide if it was in the course of playing the ball. if so it is allowable but if not the warning procedure will occur once the ball is dead thereby giving the fielding side the chance of dismissal. the initial contravention will bring warning but repetition by any batsman during that innings will result in disallowance of runs and the award ofpenalty runs as well as reporting of player and captain. after the first warning each incoming batsman must be informed. there is tendency by the striker to run diagonally across the pitch in order to be in the normal position for non striker at the end of the run. that is illegal under law 41.14 as it is causing unnecessary damage to the pitch. moreover if the umpire forms the opinion that it was done deliberately possibly to impede fielding by the bowler or worse to come between the ball and either fielder or the wicket itself this would additionally be case of obstructing the field. see law 37. the procedure laid down in laws 41.14 and 41.15 are the same but separate. each allows only one warning before action but they are not aggregated so it is important for umpires to be sure under which law the warning has been given. the warning lasts throughout the innings and will apply to any batsman. although the batting captain is to be told at the first offence since it is batsman who has transgressed there may not be suitable opportunity to tell him her for some time. even if the captain has been informed there is no guarantee that he she has told the other batsmen. the umpire is therefore to tell each incoming batsman even after the batting captain has been informed. if any batsman from that team transgresses again in that innings then the procedures under 41.14.3 or 41.15.3. as appropriate require that any runs are disallowed though relevant penalties will be allowed and the batsmen are returned to their original ends. sadly there have been instances of tail end batsmen deliberately ignoring the need to run off the pitch and even making unnecessarily fierce movements in playing at the ball to roughen the pitch in the hope of assisting their own bowlers in the ne innings. umpires should be aware of such practices. the non striker has no need to be on the pitch at all. the question of wilfulness does not arise. the batsmen should not be on the pitch as described above. however if damage is wilful that is more serious and that will be reflected in the umpires report after the match. unfair running by batsmen 1. non striker leaving his her ground early although it is quite different situation and there is no procedure towards any penalty we can consider the non striker who leaves his her ground too soon under the heading of running by the batsmen . the law compensates the fielding side for any advantage that the batsman may get from not being within his her ground by making the non striker liable to being run out. from the moment the ball comes into play right up to the moment the bowler would normally release the ball the non striker is liable to be run out by the bowler. consequently unless the non striker remains within his her ground until that moment there is risk of being dismissed. the umpire will have little warning that run out is to be attempted and will certainly not be able to move round to square with the wicket and crease. however it is usually fairly obvious given that the batsman is moving away from rather than towards the popping crease. there are those who feel that bowler should not actually make the attempt on the first transgression but should give warning by stopping and indicating that he she could have run the non striker out. this is traditional courtesy but is not obligatory. non striker by leaving early is attempting to gain an advantage it is they who are cheating not the bowler. umpires should not be seen to discourage bowler from fairly running out batsman who does so. if the bowler does attempt run out either with the ball in hand or by throwing the ball at the stumps and the attempt succeeds then of course the non striker is out. should it fail the umpire will call and signal dead ball to ensure that no runs can accrue to the batting side nor can there be further action by the fielding side. if not clear it will be helpful to the scorers to tell them as soon as practicable what has happened. whether the attempt at the run out is successful or not the ball does not count as one in the over. it is rare but possible for bowler to put down the wicket accidentally with the hand holding the ball. sometimes the ball is delivered and sometimes it is not. if the non striker is out of his her ground when this happens regardless of whether the ball is delivered or not he she will be run out even though the bowler has not made any deliberate attempt to do so. if the non striker is dismissed the ball becomes dead as soon as the wicket is put down so it is not no ball under law 21.6 bowler breaking wicket in delivering the ball . if however the non striker is not given out as above or the wicket is put down with anything other than the ball or the hand holding the ball then 41.16 cannot apply and the non striker is not out but if the ball is still delivered it remains in play and would be no ball. 2. batsmen stealing run. although the ball is in play as soon as the bowler starts his her run up the batsmen are not permitted to attempt runs until the ball is delivered. it should not be confused with the previous situation. it is not case of one batsman leaving his her ground too soon. to be trying to steal run both batsmen must be trying to cross and make good their ground from end to end this is law which is almost never broken but were it not to the practice could become common. law 41.17 sets out the procedure it should be noted that the umpire must wait until the batsmen have crossed to call dead ball. this ensures that both batsmen are involved confirming that run is being attempted the bowler has not taken up the option of trying to run out either batsman. if he she had done so before the batsman have crossed action under 41.17 would not be required. unacceptable behaviour in ways not listed in the laws law 41.2 empowers either umpire to call dead ball and thus halt play if he she sees any act which is considered unfair even though it is not one of the misdemeanours specifically stated in the laws. it also outlines the procedure which then applies. note that 41.2 only applies to actions by players not covered by the laws and thus does not apply to incidences of players misconduct which would be covered by law 42. as stated this section of law is another where either umpire can intervene if they consider an action by any player is not covered by the laws. the umpire is guided to delay that intervention if the non offending side could be deprived of an advantage such as taking wicket or scoring runs particularly boundary. equally if the non offending side could be disadvantaged by losing wicket or having runs scored against them then an early call of dead ball should be made. the first and final warning issued initially is for the whole of the team for the rest of the match and the captain is warned that further offence will result inpenalty runs as will any subsequent offences by that team at any time throughout the match. it should be noted that such second offence is restricted to cases under this law meaning for that warning under 41.2 followed by first warning for damaging the pitch would not result inpenalty runs. the captain and player or players involved will be reported for any actions considered in breach of 41.2. law 42 players conduct 42.1 unacceptable conduct 41.1.1 the umpires shall act upon any unacceptable conduct four levels of offence and the corresponding actions by the umpires are identified as levellevelleveland leveloffences in 42.2 to 42.5. 41.1.2 if either umpire considers that the conduct of player at any time during the match is unacceptable the umpire concerned shall call and signal dead ball this call may be delayed until the umpire is satisfied that will not disadvantage the non offending side. 41.1.3 the umpire concerned shall report the matter to the other umpire and together they shall decide whether misconduct has occurred. if so they shall determine into which of the levels the conduct falls as set out in 42.2 to 42.5 below and then apply the related sanctions. 41.1.4 for each leveltoif the offence is by batsman the umpires shall summon the offending player captain to the field. solely for the purpose of this law the batsmen at the wicket may not deputise for their captain. 41.1.5 for each leveltoplaying time shall be counted as lost from the call of time to the call of play intervals law 11 and suspensions of play law 2.8 . the time for close of play on that day shall be by this length of time. if applicable no overs shall be deducted during the last hour of the match solely on account of this time. 42.2 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.2.1 any of the following action by player shall constitute leveloffence wilfully mistreating any part of the cricket ground equipment or implements used in the match showing dissent at an umpire decision by word or action using language that in the circumstances is obscene offensive or insulting making an obscene gesture appealing advancing towards an umpire in an aggressive manner when appealing any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence. 42.2.2 it such an offence is committed 42.2.2.1 to 42.2.2.6 shall be implemented as appropriate according to whether or not it is the first offence at any level. 42.2.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.2.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.2.2.3 if the leveloffence is the first offence at any level by that team the umpire shall 42.2.2.3.1 issue first and final warning which shall apply to all members of the team for the remainder of the match. 42.2.2.3.2 warn the offending player captain that any further leveloffence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.2.2.4 if the leveloffence follows an offence at any level by that team the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.2.2.5 as soon as practicable the umpire shall call play. 42.2.2.6 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.3 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.3.1 any of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence showing serious dissent at an umpire decision by word or action making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with another player throwing the ball at player umpire or another person in an inappropriate and dangerous manner using language or gesture to another player umpire team official or spectator that in the circumstances is obscene or of seriously insulting nature or any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence 42.3.2 if such an offence is committed 42.3.2.1 to 42.3.2.6 shall be implemented. 42.3.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary. 42.3.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.3.2.3 the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.3.2.4 the umpire shall warn the offending player captain that any future level offence by any member of his her team shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.3.2.5 as soon as practicable the umpire shall call play. 42.3.2.6 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.4 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.4.1 either of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence intimidating an umpire by language or gesture threatening to assault player or any other person an umpire. see 42.5.1. 42.4.2 if such an offence is committed 42.4.2.1 to 42.4.2.8 shall be implemented. 42.4.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary 42.4.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.4.2.3 the umpires shall direct the captain to remove the offending player immediately from the field of play for period in accordance with the following 42.4.2.3.1 in match where the innings are not limited to number of overs the player shall be suspended from the field of play for 10 overs. any balls remaining in the over in progress at the time of suspension shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.3.2 in match where the innings are limited to number of overs the player shall be suspended for one fifth of the number of overs allocated to the current innings at its commencement. if. in calculating the length of the suspension part over results it shall be considered as whole over. any balls remaining in the over in progress at the time of suspension shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.3.3 if the offending player is fielder no substitute shall be allowed for him her. the offending player may return to the field of play after serving the period of suspension and may bowl immediately. 42.4.2.3.4 if bowler is suspended mid over then that over must be completed by different bowler who shall not have bowled the previous over nor shall he she bowl the ne over. 42.4.2.3.5 if the offending player is not out batsman he she shall be replaced by another member of his her team. the offending player may return to bat after having served the suspension only at the fall of wicket. if no batsman is available to bat during batsman suspension the innings is completed. if the offending player does not continue his her innings for whatever reason he she is to be recorded as retired not out. 42.4.2.3.6 if the offending player is dismissed member of the batting side the period of suspension will not commence until the start of the ne innings. furthermore in these circumstances the offending player may not act as runner during the innings when he she was suspended. 42.4.2.3.7 warn the offending player captain that any future leveloffence shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.4.2.3.8 any overs remaining to be served from suspension shall be carried forward to the ne and subsequent innings of the match part over at the end of the innings shall not count towards the overs for which the player is suspended. 42.4.2.4 as soon as practicable the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team signal the levelpenalty to the scorers call play 42.4.2.5 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and if appropriate the team. 42.5 leveloffences and action by umpires 42.5.1 any of the following actions by player shall constitute leveloffence threatening to assault an umpire making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with an umpire physically assaulting player or any other person committing any other act of violence. 42.5.2 if such an offence is committed. 42.5.2.1 to 42.5.2.5 shall be implemented. 42.5.2.1 the umpire shall call time if necessary 42.5.2.2 together the umpires shall summon and inform the offending player captain that an offence at this level has occurred. 42.5.2.3 the umpires shall direct the captain to remove the offending player immediately from the field of play for the remainder of the match and shall apply the following 42.5.2.3.1 if the offending player is fielder no substitute shall be allowed for him her. he she is to be recorded as retired out at the commencement of any subsequent innings in which his her team is the batting side. 42.5.2.3.2 if bowler is suspended mid over then that over must be completed by different bowler who shall not have bowled the previous over nor shall be permitted to bowl the ne over. 42.5.2.3.3 if the offending player is batsman he she is to be recorded as retired out in the current innings unless he she has been dismissed under any of laws 32 to 39 and at the commencement of any subsequent innings in which his her team is the batting side. if no further batsman is available to bat the innings is completed. 42.5.2.3.4 warn the offending player captain that any future level offence shall result in the award ofpenalty runs to the opposing team. 42.5.2.4 as soon as practicable. the umpire shall awardpenalty runs to the opposing team signal the levelpenalty to the scorers call play 42.5.2.5 the umpires together shall report the occurrence as soon as possible after the match to the of the offending player team and to any governing body responsible for the match who shall take such further action as is considered appropriate against the captain any other individuals concerned and it appropriate the team. 42.6 captain refusing to remove player from the field 42.6.1 if captain refuses to carry out an instruction under 42.4.2.3 or 42.5.2.3 the umpires shall invoke law 16.3 umpires awarding match 42.6.2 if both captains refuse to carry out instructions under 42.4.2.3 or 42.5.2.3 in respect of the same incident the umpires shall instruct the players to leave the field. the match is not concluded as in law 129 conclusion of match and there shall be no result under law 16 the result . 42.7 additional points relating to leveland leveloffences 42.7.1 if player while acting as wicket keeper commits levelor leveloffence law 24.1.2 substitute fielders shall not apply meaning that only nominated player may act as wicket keeper even if another fielder becomes injured or ill and is replaced by substitute. 42.7.2 nominated player who has substitute or has runner will suffer penalty for any levelor leveloffence committed by that substitute or by that runner 42.7.2.1 when the offence is committed by substitute the nominated player and substitute will each suffer the penalty defined in 42.4.2.3 or in 42.5.2.3 as appropriate. only the substitute will be reported as in 42.4.2.5 or 42.5.2.5. 42.7.2.2 when the offence is committed by runner the batsman who has the runner and the runner will each suffer the penalty defined in 42.4.2.3 or in 42.5.2.3 as appropriate. the penalty for leveloffence 42.5.2.3 will apply to the runner for the remainder of the match but in only the current innings to the batsman for whom the runner acted. the preamble to the laws sets out the manner in which players coaches officials and in junior matches parents and teachers should approach the game of cricket. the spirit of cricket is not always easy to define and the preamble does not seek to do so prescriptively. however it does place respect honesty and fair play at the centre of the game. responsible for ensuring this is the case are the captains it is for them to make sure their players act within the spirit and the laws of cricket. however there are times when the players do not meet the standards laid down by the preamble. unfortunately there is evidence in cricket from juniors to internationals that behaviour has taken turn for the worse. with that in mind and after much deliberation and consultation across the world this new law was introduced in 2017 to allow umpires to punish poor on field behaviour with strong on field sanctions. it is hoped that umpires will rarely if ever to have to use these sanctions. as much as possible the tone of match should be set by the umpires management of it by their interactions with the captains before and during play and by quiet word when needed. however strong umpire will know that there are times when despite all of the above being performed perfectly players still cross the line. that is when law 42 should be used. umpires must learn from referees in other sports where such punishments are common and have been for decades even centuries to be neither scared of using these sanctions nor desperate to show off their power. every sanction from levelto levelcomes with responsibility to report the player behaviour these on field punishments do not replace the old system they merely add to it. stopping the game when an umpire and it can be either umpire identifies some act to be in breach of law 42 they should not rush to intervene. make sure not to inconvenience the team who have not committed the offence. for consider an lbw appeal that is turned down. the ball strikes the pad and while the bowler appeals for lbw the ball runs away toward the boundary. the umpire says not out at which point the bowler shows dissent. if the umpire were to immediately call the ball dead before it had reached the boundary the batting side would be denied four leg byes. the umpires should therefore be decisive but calm and not rush to stop the game. the same conversely is true if batsman were to verbally abuse the bowler whilst running. the batsman has committed leveloffence but the punishment for that is onlypenalty runs. the umpires should therefore wait to see if the fielding side run the batsman out before declaring the ball dead. then after consultation between the two the relevant process and the appropriate sanction can be applied without disadvantaging the fielding side who have done nothing wrong. once any relevant action that may benefit the non offending side is over the umpire calls dead ball and must consult his her colleague. the level of offence under law 42 if any is determined by the umpires together. if only one umpire has seen or heard the offence consultation may just be for that umpire to inform his her colleague rather than to determine what has happened the umpires will give joint decision based on the view of the only umpire who saw the incident having agreed on the level of the offence. often however both umpires will have slightly different views of the same incident and can help each other decide if an offence has occurred and if so at which level. deciding the level of offence there are lots of offences covered specifically in each level of the law most of which are perfectly obvious. for wilfully mistreating any part of the cricket ground equipment or implements is not hard to classify. batsman who smashes the gate on his her way off the ground is clearly guilty of leveloffence. others though are more complicated. when does dissent levelbecome serious dissent levelis batsman smashing over the wicket after being given out lbw wilful mistreatment of equipment levelor serious dissent levelis the bowler showing serious dissent levelor attempting to intimidate an umpire levelthis is for the umpires together to decide. there is often no definitively right or wrong answer and it will always be helpful for the two umpires to talk frankly about their different views before deciding and then presenting united front to both captains. often the decision will have an element of subjectivity for 42.2.1 describes language that the circumstances is obscene offensive or insulting . this phrase is used precisely to tell the umpires to be sensitive to different cultures and attitudes and to the impact of young players involved in the match. comment or nickname may seem insulting to player or if it is loud enough spectator not involved in the . it is no to claim that the recipient of the call cares little about it. as circumstances change so must an umpire appreciation of insults. this means umpires need to be both aware of the conte and fle with their application of the law. levelsandhave an other equivalent misconduct section which again is left to the judgment of the umpires. just because an offence is not mentioned specifically in the law it does not mean player cannot be sanctioned for it under levelorof law 42. further guidance on differentiating between the offences in level 42 can be found in the table at the end of this law. the umpires together are required to judge the level of offence. they may disagree at first but must come to conclusion that satisfies both. when they determine that an offence has taken place and its level that is to be taken as their joint decision whether or not one privately might have preferred different outcome. the more serious offences in levelandwhich involve intimidation threatening to assault or hopefully rarely actual assault should be easier to decide and by their nature should be dealt with promptly and appropriately. double punishments just because team has been punished for an offence in some other way under the laws it does not mean they are protected from being punished again from the same delivery under law 42. this is most obviously the case for batsman who has been given out lbw showing dissent. he she can still be punished under law 42 despite already having been dismissed. the same is true for other offences. batsman who deliberately collides with fielder may well be out obstructing the field. that does not protect the same batsman from leveloffence for making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with another player if the umpires consider the nature of the contact warrants it. the batsman should be given out and his side also penalised penalty runs. similarly if fielder deliberately and aggressively obstructs batsman in running the umpires would apply law 41.5 to protect the batting side and law 42 to reprimand the fielder. calling time this is the only point in the game when the laws require time is to be called despite there being no interval or interruption that is to differentiate it from other offences which while unfair are within the game. the offences under law 42 are non cricketing offences and are thus dealt with outside the usual game. any time lost will be made up as under law 163 by adding the lost playing time on to the time that play is due to finish that day. it should be stressed however that if law 42 offence takes place shortly before an interval and the time taken to deal with it runs into that interval or interruption then it is not the whole time between the calls of time and play that should be added. only the playing time which is lost . . not time otherwise scheduled for an interval nor time that would have been lost to another interruption should be added on. speaking to the captains in line with the responsibility of captains it is the captain. not the offending player who is warned by the umpire under leveland 2. it is the captain rather than the umpires who are to take any action against the player involved in leveloroffence this is the same principle as captain removing bowler from the attack for dangerous bowling see page 363 in law 41.8 and needs no further . however if the sanction is against batsman his her captain may well not be on the field. that means they need to be summoned and the situation . this act alone should make the seriousness of the offence clear it is the only time that the batsmen at the crease may not deputise for their captain. huge fuss need not be made the captain needs to know what has happened what the sanction will be and that it will result in the award of penalty runs for any further offences at any level by the same team. he she does not need to make their case the decision is made he she is merely being informed. the captain must then take any necessary action against his her own player before returning to the pavilion. if the offending player happens to be the captain whether of the fielding or batting side then another nominated player will need to be summoned and informed of the breach and implications for future offences. if the captain has committed leveloroffence then the other nominated player will have the responsibility to remove the captain from the field and will take over the responsibilities of the captaincy whilst the captain is suspended. if and this is obviously last resort captain refuses to carry out their duty to remove player then umpires should under 42.6 ask the captain if that means he she and the team are refusing to play. if the answer is no and the player leaves the field then hopefully no more needs to be said although report will still need to be made after the game . but if the offending player captain persists in not removing the player then the match must be awarded to the other side. in an situation where players from both sides are involved in levelorincident at the same time and neither captain is prepared to remove his her players from the field then if both captains demonstrate refusal to play 42.6.2 is clear the umpires must stop the match with no result recorded. the umpires should obviously warn the captains of this possibility before making such decision. furthermore both captains and all the players involved must be reported. further offences this is relatively self but the key thing to remember is that after any offence by team whatever the level any further leveloffence shall be punished with penalty runs. umpires are required to inform the captain of this. there is no mechanism for repeat offences at any level escalating to the ne level. the team is at risk however of even the smallest offence costing them runs. calculating time off the field ln the case of leveloffence the umpires will need to know for how long the offending player must be off the field and will inform the captain of the offending team. in timed game this is always 10 overs in limited overs name it is one fifth of the length of the innings as determined at the start of the innings in question. this takes some . if game is scheduled to be 50 overs per side and there have been no interruptions before play starts player who is suspended in the first innings will be off for 10 overs. if it then rains and the game is shortened to say 20 overs per side that player who is already off the field does not see change in his her penalty. further if another player is suspended during the first innings they too will have to spend 10 overs off the field. it is the length of the innings when the innings started not when the suspension started that matters. however in that same game player who is suspended in the second innings which was from its start going to be 20 overs would only be off the field for four overs. some players may complain this is unfair the only sensible response to this is to remind them that any player who has committed an offence worthy of levelsuspension is in no position to complain. if dividing the overs in the innings byresults in part over the number is always rounded up. similarly whatever the number of overs the over in progress does not count. so player suspended for 10 overs after two balls of an over will actually serve 10.4 overs perhaps more if the suspension straddles the end of an innings which also ends part way through an over that part over would also not count. bowler suspensions if bowler is suspended mid over under levelorthen another player must complete that over. the new bowler may not have bowled any part of the previous over nor may he she bowl any part of the ne over. in limited overs cricket all these part overs will count as full over out of the bowler permitted bowling allowance but not the suspension . batsmen suspensions levelwhen not out batsman is suspended for leveloffence then he she can only resume an interrupted innings when all the following apply the overs for the suspension have another wicket falls but not upon retirement there are still wickets to fall when the suspension is complete. suspended batsman not out the consequences for the suspended batsman vary depending on whether the suspended batsman was not out or had been dismissed. if for in the first innings of match the numberbatsman is suspended for 10 overs whenwickets are down and then the 8th and 9th wickets fall after furtherovers have been bowled. the suspended batsman will not be able to resume his her innings. the innings is closed at however many runs have been scored forwickets and the suspended player is recorded as retired not out. he she will then have to wait for the first two overs of the ne innings before being able to take the field. had the 10 overs of the suspension before the 9th wicket fell then the numberbatsman would be able to resume his her innings. suspended batsman dismissed batsman who has already been dismissed might commit leveloffence. in this case their suspension does not begin until the start of the ne innings. if for the same numberbatsman as in the previous is given out lbw and in reaction to that decision commits leveloffence his her suspension does not begin until his her team are fielding or in multi day match following on if required . levelif the batsman has committed leveloffence irrespective of whether they are out or not and irrespective of when the innings is completed he she would not be allowed to retake the field in the match and would be recorded as retired out unless he she has been dismissed during that incident . in two innings match if player is suspended for leveloffence during the first batting or fielding innings then the second batting innings for that team will start onruns for wicket with the offending player recorded retired out for that innings substitutes and runners and levelorwhilst 42.4.2.3.3 makes it clear that player who is suspended for leveloffence whilst fielding is not allowed substitute it should also be noted that under 42.7.1 if wicket keeper is suspended then only another nominated player is allowed to keep wicket and no substitute is allowed to keep wicket for the duration of the suspension. player with levelpenalty or levelpenalty with suspension time still to serve cannot act as runner. on the other hand if someone acting as substitute is suspended for leveloroffence then the player for whom they are substituting will suffer the same penalty but only the person committing the offence will be reported. the substitute is the representative of the player they are on for and for the purposes of this law they are treated as one. both the substitute and the player for whom they are substituting will be suspended. however it is slightly different for runner. because runner is by definition another nominated player an offence by runner would affect two players for an offence by one. thus if runner commits leveloffence whilst the player acting as the runner will be suspended for the rest of the match the player for whom they are running will only be suspended for the rest of that innings. again it is only the runner him herself who will be reported. before calling play after all of the above calling time discussing the offence calculating the suspension informing the captains and of course signalling to the scorers both the penalty runs and level of offence if appropriate the umpires should make clear note of what they have done. records made at the time are crucial for the preparation of the post match report and especially if there is an appeal by the player and or if any further action is to be taken. it need not be lengthy but it should be accurate and clear. then the umpires must calculate the time lost and add any playing time lost to the time for close of play. if in the last hour no overs should be lost because of this interruption. the umpire should then call play. levellevellevellevel1.1 showing dissent at umpire decision by word or action 2.1 showing serious dissent at umpire decision by word or action 1.2 appealing 1.3 advancing towards an umpire in an aggressive manner when appealing 2.2 throwing the ball at an umpire or others see below in an inappropriate and dangerous manner 3.1 intimidating an umpire by language or gesture 41 threatening to assault an umpire. or 4.2 making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with an umpire 1.4 using language that. in the circumstances is obscene offensive or insulting or 1.5 making an obscene gesture 2.3 using language or gesture to an umpire player official or spectator that in the circumstances is obscene or of seriously insulting nature 1.6 wilfully mistreating any part of the cricket ground equipment or implements used in the match 2.4 making inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with another player nb with an umpire is level3.2 threatening to assault player or any other person an umpire nb threatening to assault an umpire is level4.3 physically assaulting player or any other person which includes umpires who would already be covered by physical contact see above although this more serious 2.5 throwing the ball at player for umpire. see above or another person in an inappropriate and dangerous manner 4.4 committing any other act of violence could include umpires see also above 1.7 any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence 2.6 any other misconduct the nature of which is in the opinion of the umpires equivalent to leveloffence note offences are grouped by type to show the progression of seriousness across the levels and the difference between levels when an umpire is involved. meaning of language dissent disagreement with an umpire decision. aggressive behaving angrily likely to confront or attack. obscene indecent or offensive. inappropriate unsuitable or unacceptable. intimidation to frighten especially in order to force someone to do something assault to attack violently to attempt to injure another person. dissent 1.1 vs serious dissent 1.2 whether dissent falls under levelor levelis matter of degree and depends on the strength force and manner of the dissent. for from batsman in response to lbw decision clearly and audibly ump you need the optician said laughingly might be allowed but you must be joking said vehemently would be leveland you need to see optician hit the cover off that one said aggressively probably level 2. language and gestures 1.4 vs 2.3 the difference between leveland levelis two fold at levelthe language or gesture is specifically aimed at an umpire team official player or spectator at levelit is obscene as it is at levelor of seriously insulting nature again matter of degree in which the umpire is entitled to take into account the impact of what was said or gestured on those to whom it was addressed. specific protection of umpires note carefully how the offences step up from one level to another and how the protection of umpires is greater in terms of which level of offence is triggered than for players and others. thus at levelwe begin with advancing towards the umpire aggressively or appealing . . particularly after the umpire has given his her decision levelmoves up to throwing the ball at the umpire inappropriately and in dangerous manner. there are only few occasions where it would be appropriate to throw the ball to the umpire so the test is easy and the offence is likely to turn on whether the throw was dangerous. at levelthe umpire is protected against being intimidated by language or gesture with view to attempting to influence the umpire decision. the umpire should not feel frightened of doing his her job properly. at levelthe attack on the umpire is yet more serious and covers inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with no requirement for violence as well as merely threatening an assault threat of violence and actual assault violence and any other acts of violence against umpires or any others. protection of players and other persons against ball throwing physical contact threats and assault violence again these step up level by level but more slowly than for umpires. levelprotects against throwing the ball inappropriately and dangerously at others as well as against inappropriate and deliberate physical contact with another player with no requirement for violence being involved . levelcovers threatened assault violence of player or another person an umpire because for umpires that level. levelcovers physical assault violence and other acts of violence. in relation to offences by players it is important to note two points each level of offence involves reporting to the sanctions imposed on match day are only the beginning further sanctions may be imposed on players in post match disciplinary proceedings some offences arising under other laws may also involve offences under law 42 . . deliberate obstruction by batsman of fielder or vice versa involving physical contact or violence and may trigger leveloroffence. note that once the situation involves physical assault or other acts of violence issues of overall player umpire and spectator safety could be involved and may require more drastic actions than those prescribed by law 42. partthe appendices the appendices are vital part of the laws of cricket although often overlooked. they provide clarity on certain aspects of the laws giving definitions and diagrams of key terms and equipment. while rarely read in isolation the appendices should be used in conjunction with the laws and any serious student of the game whether umpire scorer player or spectator should be familiar with them. where question arises that the laws do not address the answer is often to be found in these pages. appendix provides definitions of terms that are otherwise undefined in the laws while appendix focuses on the bat and its specifications and includes an diagram of the bat gauge introduced in 2017. appendix illustrates lawsandgiving clear dimensions for the pitch and crease markings appendix does the same for lawthe wickets and appendix the legalities of the wicket keeper gloves as defined in law 27.2. appendix definitions and of words or phrases not defined in the te .the match .1.1 the game is used in these laws as general term meaning the game of cricket. .1.2 match is single encounter or contest between two sides or teams played under the laws of cricket. .1.3 the toss is the toss for choice of innings. .1.4 before the toss is at any time before the toss on the day the match is to start or in the case of one day match on the day the match is due to take place. .1.5 before the match is at any time before the toss not restricted to the day on which the toss is to take place . .1.6 during the match is at any time after the toss until the conclusion of the match whether play is in progress or not. .1.7 playing time is any time between the call of play and the call of time see laws 12.1 call of play and 12.2 call of time . .1.8 conduct of the match includes any action relevant to the match at any time on any day of the match. .2 implements and equipment .2.1 implements used in the match are the bat the ball the stumps and bails. .2.2 protective equipment is any viable item of apparel worn for protection against blows. for batsman items permitted area protective helmet leg guards batting pads batting gloves and if visible forearm guards for fielder only protective helmet is permitted in the case of wicket keeper for whom wicket keeping pads and gloves are also permitted. .2.3 protective helmet is her made of hard material and designed to protect the head or the face or both. for the purposes of interpreting these laws of cricket such description will include faceguards. .2.4 equipment batsman equipment is his her bat as defined above together with any protective equipment he she is wearing. fielder equipment is any protective equipment that he she is wearing. .2.5 the bat the following are to be considered as part of the bat the whole of the bat itself. the whole of glove or gloves worn on the hand or hands holding the bat. the hand or hands holding the bat if the batsman is not wearing glove on that hand or on those hands .2.6 held in batsman hand contact between batsman hand or glove worn on his her hand and any part of the bat shall constitute the bat being held in that hand. .3 the playing area .3.1 the field of play is the area contained within the boundary .3.2 the square is specially prepared area of the field of play within which the match pitch is situated. .3.3 the outfield is that part of the field of play between the square and the boundary. .4 positioning .4.1 behind the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the field of play including any other marking objects and persons therein that is on that side of the popping crease that does not include the creases at the opposite end of the pitch. behind in relation to any other marking object or person follows the same principle. see the diagram in .13. .4.2 in front of the popping crease at one end of the pitch is that area of the field of play including any other marking objects and persons therein that is on that side of the popping crease that includes the creases at the opposite end of the pitch. in front of in relation to any other marking object or person follows the same principle. see the diagram in .13. .4.3 the striker end is the place where the striker stands to receive delivery from the bowler only insofar as it identifies independently of where the striker may subsequently move one end of the pitch. .4.4 the bowler end is the end from which the bowler delivers the ball. it is the other end of the pitch from the striker end and identifies that end of the pitch that is not the striker end as described in .4.3. .4.5 the wicket keeper end is the same as the striker end as described in .4.3. .4.6 in front of the line of the striker wicket is in the area of the field of play in front of the imaginary line joining the fronts of the stumps at the striker end this line to be considered in both directions to the boundary. see .4.2. .4.7 behind the wicket is in the area of the field of play behind the imaginary line joining the backs of the stumps at the appropriate end this line to be considered in both directions to the boundary. see .4.1. .4.8 behind the wicket keeper is behind the wicket at the striker end as defined above but in line with both sets of stumps and further from the stumps than the wicket keeper. .4.9 off side on side see diagram in .13 .4.10 inside edge is the edge on the same side as the nearer wicket. .5 umpires .5.1 umpire where the description the umpire is used on its own it always means the bowler end umpire though this full description is sometimes used for emphasis or clarity. similarly the umpires always means both umpires. an umpire and umpires are generalised terms. otherwise fuller description indicates which one of the umpires is specifically intended. each umpire will be bowler end umpire and striker end umpire in alternate overs. .5.2 bowler end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the bowler end see .4.4 for the current delivery. .5.3 striker end umpire is the umpire who is standing at the striker end see .4.3 to one side of the pitch or the other depending on his her choice for the current delivery. .5.4 umpires together agree applies to decisions which the umpires are to make jointly independently of the players. .6 batsmen .6.1 batting side is the side currently batting whether or not play is in progress. .6.2 member of the batting side is one of the players nominated by the captain of the batting side or any authorised replacement for such nominated player. .6.3 batsman ground at each end of the pitch the whole area of the field of play behind the popping crease is the ground at that end for batsman. .6.4 original end is the end where batsman was when the ball came into play for that delivery. .6.5 wicket he she has left is the wicket at the end where batsman was at the start of the run in progress . .6.6 guard position is the position and posture adopted by the striker to receive ball delivered by the bowler. .6.7 for the purposes of these laws waist height is defined as the point at which the top of the batsman trousers would conventionally be when he she is standing upright at the popping crease. .7 fielders .7.1 fielding side is the side currently fielding whether or not play is in progress. .7.2 member of the fielding side is one of the players nominated by the captain of the fielding side or any authorised replacement or substitute for such nominated player. .7.3 fielder is one of the 11 or fewer players who together represent the fielding side on the field of play. this definition includes not only both the bowler and the wicket keeper but also nominated players who are legitimately on the field of play together with players legitimately acting as substitutes for absent nominated players. it any nominated player who is absent from the field of play or who has been absent from the field of play and who has not yet obtained the umpire permission to return. player going briefly outside the boundary in the course of discharging his her duties as fielder is not absent from the field of play nor for the purposes of law 24.2 fielder absent or leaving the field of play is he she to be regarded as having left the field of play. .8 substitutes replacements and runners .8.1 substitute is player who takes the place of fielder on the field of play but does not replace the player for whom he she substitutes on that side list of nominated players. substitute activities are limited to fielding. .8.2 replacement is player who takes the place of nominated player and who thereby becomes nominated player. replacement activities on the field of play are no more limited than those of any other nominated player. .8.3 runner is nominated player who runs for another nominated player of his her own side who is batting and is unable to run. .9 bowlers .9.1 over the wicket round the wicket if as the bowler runs up between the wicket and the return crease the wicket is on the same side as his her bowling arm he she is bowling over the wicket. if the return crease is on the same side as his her bowling arm he she is bowling round the wicket. .9.2 delivery swing is the motion of the bowler arm during which he she normally releases the ball for delivery. .9.3 delivery stride is the stride during which the delivery swing is made whether the ball is released or not. it starts when the bowler back foot lands for that stride and ends when the front foot lands in the same stride. the stride after the delivery stride is completed when the ne foot lands . . when the back foot of the delivery stride lands again. .10 the ball .10.1 the ball is struck strikes the ball unless specifically defined otherwise mean the balls struck by the bat strikes the ball with the bat. .10.2 rebounds directly strikes directly and similar phrases mean without contact with any fielder but do not contact with the ground. .10.3 full pitch describes ball delivered by the bowler that reaches or passes the striker without having touched the ground. sometimes described as non pitching. .11 runs .11.1 run to be disallowed is one that in law should not have been taken. it is not only to be cancelled but the batsmen are to be returned to their original ends. .11.2 run not to be scored is one that is not illegal but is not recognised as properly run. it is not run that has been made so the question of cancellation does not arise. the loss of the run so attempted is not disallowance and the batsmen will not be returned to their original ends on that account. .12 the person .12.1 person player person is his her physical person flesh and blood together with any clothing or legitimate protective equipment that he she is wearing in the case of batsman his her bat. hand whether gloved or not that is not holding the bat is part of the batsman person no item of clothing or equipment is part of the player person unless it is attached to him her. for batsman glove being held but not worn is part of his her person. for fielder an item of clothing or equipment he she is holding in his her hand or hands is not part of his her person. .12.2 clothing anything that player is wearing including such items as spectacles or jewellery that is not classed as protective equipment is classed as clothing even though he she may be wearing some items of apparel which are not visible for protection. bat being carried by batsman does not come within this definition of clothing. .12.3 hand for batsman or wicket keeper shall include both the hand itself and the whole of glove worn on the hand. .13 off side on side in front of behind the popping crease appendix the bat law.1 general guidance .1.1 measurements all provisions in sections .2 to .6 below are subject to the measurements and restrictions stated in the law and this appendix. .1.2 adhesives throughout adhesives are permitted only where essential and only in minimal quantity .1.3 categories of bat the specifications given below relate to type and bats unless specified otherwise. .1.4 .2 specifications for the handle .2.1 one end of the handle is inserted into recess in the blade as means of joining the handle and the blade. this lower portion is used purely for joining the blade and the handle together it is not part of the blade but solely in interpreting .3 and .4 below references to the blade shall be considered to also to this lower portion of the handle where relevant. .2.2 the handle may be glued where necessary and bound with twine along the upper portion providing law 5.5 is not contravened the upper portion may be covered with materials solely to provide surface suitable for gripping such covering is an addition and is not part of the bat in relation to law 5.6. the bottom of this group should not below the point defined in .2.4 below. twine binding and the covering grip may beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the hand to cover part of the shoulders of the bat as defined in b3.1 no material may be placed on or inverted into the lower portion of the handle other than as permitted above together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used solely for fi these items or for fi the handle to the blade. .2.3 materials in handle as proportion of the total volume of the handle materials other than cane wood or twine are restricted to one tenth for types and and one fifth for type and type . such materials must not project more than 3.25 in 8.26 cm into the lower portion of the handle. .2.4 binding and covering of handle the permitted continuation beyond the junction of the upper and lower portions of the handle is restricted to ma measured along the length of the handle of 2.5 in 6.35 cm for the twine binding 2.75 in 6.99 cm for the covering grip. .3 specifications for the blade .3.1 the blade has face back toe sides and shoulders .3.1.1 the face of the blade is its main striking surface and shall be flat or have slight convex curve resulting from traditional pressing techniques. the back is the opposite surface. .3.1.2 the shoulders sides and toe are the remaining surfaces separating the face and the back. .3.1.3 the shoulders one on each side of the handle are along that portion of the blade between the first entry point of the handle and the point at which the blade first reaches its full width. .3.1.4 the toe is the surface opposite to the shoulders taken as pair. .3.1.5 the sides one each side of the blade are along the rest of the blade between the toe and the shoulders. .3.2 no material may be placed on or inserted into the blade other than as permitted in .2.4 .3.3. and law 5.4 together with the minimal adhesives or adhesive tape used solely for fi these items or for fi the handle to the blade. .3.3 covering the blade type and type bats shall have no covering on the blade as permitted in law 5.4. type and type bats may have cloth covering on the blade. this may be treated as specified in .4 below. the cloth covering permitted for type and bats shall be of thickness not 0.012 in 0.3 mm before treatment as in .4.1. any materials referred to above in law 5.4 and .4 below are to be considered as part of the bat which must still pass through the gauge as defined in .8. .4 protection and repair .4.1 the surface of the blade may be treated with non solid materials to improve resistance to moisture penetration and or mask natural blemishes in the appearance of the wood. save for the purpose of giving homogeneous appearance by masking natural blemishes such treatment shall not materially alter the colour of the blade. .4.2 materials can be used for protection and repair as stated in law 5.4 and are additional to the blade. note however law 5.6. any such material shall not over any part of the back of the blade in the case of law 5.4.1 and then only when it is applied as continuous wrapping covering the damaged area. the repair material shall not along the length of the blade more than 0.79 in 20 cm in each direction beyond the limits of the damaged area. where used as continuous binding any overlapping shall not breach the ma of 0.04 in 0.1 cm in total thickness. the use of non solid material which when dry forms hard layer more than 0.004 in 0.01 cm in thickness is not permitted. additionally for protection from damage for bat types and material may be inserted at the toe and or along the sides parallel to the face of the blade. .4.3 permitted coverings repair material and toe guards not their specified thicknesses may be additional to the dimensions above but the bat must still pass through the gauge as described in .8. .5 toe and side inserts the wood used must not be more than 0.35 in 0.89 cm in thickness. the toe insert shall not from the toe more than 2.5 in 635 cm up the blade at any point. neither side insert may from the edge more thanin 2.54 cm across the blade at any point. 8.6 commercial identifications these identifications may not 0.008 in 0.02 cm in thickness. on the back of the blade they must occupy no more than 50 of the surface. on the face of the blade they must be confined within the topin 22.86 cm measured from where the bottom of the grip as defined in .2.2 and .2.4 would finish. .7 type bats type bats as defined shall comply with the size specifications and restrictions in lawand this appendix. the blade in addition may be .7.1 laminated but using only wood and with no more than three pieces. .7.2 coloured providing law 5.5 is not contravened. .8 bat gauge all bats that conform to the laws of cricket must meet the specifications defined in law 5.7. they must also with or without protective coverings permitted in law 5.4 be able to pass through bat gauge the dimensions and shape of which are shown in the diagram on the following page. bat gauge diagram .8 dimensions of aperture total depth 2.68 in 6.8 cm width 4.33 in 11.0 cm edge 161 in 41 cm curve 0.20 in 0.5 cm note the curve of the lower edge of the aperture is an arc of circle of radius 12.0 in 30.5 cm whose centre is on the vertical centre line of the aperture appendix the pitch lawand the creases lawappendix the wickets lawbails for senior cricket overall 4.31 in 10.95 cm 1.38 in 3.50 cm 2.13 in 5.40 cm 0.81 in 2.06 cm stumps for senior cricket height 28 in 71.1 cm diameter max. 1.5 in 3.81 cm min. 1.38 in 3.50 cm overall width of wicketin 22.86 cm appendix wicket keeping gloves the images show what is meant by no webbing between the fingers single piece of non stretch material between finger and thumb as means of support and when hand wearing the glove has the thumb fully the top edge being taut and not protruding beyond the straight line joining the top of the index finger to the top of the thumb.